1. JAMA. 2021 Nov 2;326(17):1713-1724. doi: 10.1001/jama.2021.17843.

Effect of Amoxicillin Dose and Treatment Duration on the Need for Antibiotic 
Re-treatment in Children With Community-Acquired Pneumonia: The CAP-IT 
Randomized Clinical Trial.

Bielicki JA(1), Stöhr W(2), Barratt S(2), Dunn D(2), Naufal N(2), Roland 
D(3)(4), Sturgeon K(2), Finn A(5), Rodriguez-Ruiz JP(6), Malhotra-Kumar S(6), 
Powell C(7)(8), Faust SN(9)(10), Alcock AE(11), Hall D(11)(12), Robinson G(13), 
Hawcutt DB(14)(15), Lyttle MD(16)(17), Gibb DM(2), Sharland M(1); PERUKI, 
GAPRUKI, and the CAP-IT Trial Group.

Collaborators: Molyneux E, Butler CC, Smyth A, Prichard C, Peto TEA, Cousens S, 
Logan S, Bamford A, Turkova A, Goodman AL, Fitzgerald F, Little PS, Robotham J, 
Wan M, Klein N, Rogers L, Vitale E, Rotheram M, Wright R, Lee E, Ohia U, 
Hartshorn S, Jyothish D, Hopkins J, Ross JG, Patel P, Fletcher H, Nundlall K, 
Carungcong J, Bull R, Burney N, Correia Da Costa P, Vergnano S, Walton B, Smith 
A, Ross M, Aplin L, Sheedy S, Kaur G, Morgan J, Muller J, Marshall G, 
Nyamugunduru G, Furness JC, Eggington D, Holt SJ, Gibbs J, Burchett C, Lonsdale 
C, De-Beger S, Cheung R, Sheedy AB, Ahmad M, Stockwell Z, Giwa S, Murad A, 
Jerman K, Green J, Bird C, Baron TKZ, Segal S, Beer S, Garcia Garcia MJ, 
Georgiou D, Beadon K, Martinez J, Cantle F, Eastman H, Riozzi P, Cotton H, 
Mullen N, McCrone R, Corrigan P, Salt G, Fairlie L, Smith A, Starkey L, Hayman 
M, O'Riordan S, Downes A, Allen M, Turner L, Ellis D, Bandi S, Patel R, Gough C, 
McAulay M, Conner L, Gardner S, Haslam Z, Morrison M, Barrett MJ, Niermeyer M, 
Barry E, Walton EK, Kapur A, Richmond V, Foster SJ, Bland RM, Neil A, Milligan 
B, Bannister H, Bloom B, Parikh A, Skene I, Power H, Boulton O, 
Astin-Chamberlain R, Smith D, Walters J, Martin D, Noba L, Potier K, Borland F, 
Wilson J, Suleman Z, Gilchrist J, West N, Evans J, Morecombe J, Heath PT, Iqbal 
Y, Kohns Vasconcelos M, Stefanova E, Womack C, Maconochie IK, Laing S, Jorgensen 
R, Nyirenda M, Keers S, Pilgrim S, Gardiner E, Cathie K, Bayreuther J, Ensom R, 
Cornish EK, Herrieven EL, Townend W, Sherris L, Williams P.

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Infectious Diseases Research Group, Medical Research Council 
Clinical Trial Unit at University College London, Institute for Infection and 
Immunity, St George's University of London, London, United Kingdom.
(2)Medical Research Council Clinical Trials Unit at University College London, 
London, United Kingdom.
(3)Pediatric Emergency Medicine Leicester Academic (PEMLA) Group, Emergency 
Department, Leicester, United Kingdom.
(4)SAPPHIRE Group, University of Leicester, Department of Health Sciences, 
Leicester, United Kingdom.
(5)Bristol Children's Vaccine Centre, Schools of Population Sciences and 
Cellular and Molecular Medicine, University of Bristol, Bristol, United Kingdom.
(6)Laboratory of Medical Microbiology, Vaccine and Infectious Disease Institute, 
University of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium.
(7)Emergency Medicine, Sidra Medical and Research Center, Doha, Qatar.
(8)Division of Population Medicine, Cardiff University School of Medicine, 
Cardiff, United Kingdom.
(9)National Institute for Health Research Southampton Clinical Research Facility 
and Biomedical Research Centre, University Hospital Southampton NHS Foundation 
Trust, Southampton, United Kingdom.
(10)Faculty of Medicine and Institute for Life Sciences, University of 
Southampton, Southampton, United Kingdom.
(11)Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Evelina Children's Hospital, Guy's and St 
Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust, London, United Kingdom.
(12)Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Children's Health Ireland at Crumlin, Ireland.
(13)Pediatric Emergency Medicine, University Hospitals of Derby and Burton NHS 
Foundation Trust, Derby, United Kingdom.
(14)Institute of Translational Medicine, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, 
United Kingdom.
(15)Pediatric Medicines Research Unit, Alder Hey Children's NHS Foundation 
Trust, Liverpool, United Kingdom.
(16)Emergency Department, Bristol Royal Hospital for Children, Bristol, United 
Kingdom.
(17)Faculty of Health and Applied Science, University of the West of England, 
Bristol, United Kingdom.

Erratum in
    JAMA. 2021 Dec 7;326(21):2208. doi: 10.1001/jama.2021.20219.

Comment in
    JAMA. 2022 Mar 15;327(11):1089-1090. doi: 10.1001/jama.2022.1022.
    Ann Emerg Med. 2022 Jun;79(6):573-575. doi: 
10.1016/j.annemergmed.2022.04.001.

IMPORTANCE: The optimal dose and duration of oral amoxicillin for children with 
community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) are unclear.
OBJECTIVE: To determine whether lower-dose amoxicillin is noninferior to higher 
dose and whether 3-day treatment is noninferior to 7 days.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Multicenter, randomized, 2 × 2 factorial 
noninferiority trial enrolling 824 children, aged 6 months and older, with 
clinically diagnosed CAP, treated with amoxicillin on discharge from emergency 
departments and inpatient wards of 28 hospitals in the UK and 1 in Ireland 
between February 2017 and April 2019, with last trial visit on May 21, 2019.
INTERVENTIONS: Children were randomized 1:1 to receive oral amoxicillin at a 
lower dose (35-50 mg/kg/d; n = 410) or higher dose (70-90 mg/kg/d; n = 404), for 
a shorter duration (3 days; n = 413) or a longer duration (7 days; n = 401).
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: The primary outcome was clinically indicated 
antibiotic re-treatment for respiratory infection within 28 days after 
randomization. The noninferiority margin was 8%. Secondary outcomes included 
severity/duration of 9 parent-reported CAP symptoms, 3 antibiotic-related 
adverse events, and phenotypic resistance in colonizing Streptococcus pneumoniae 
isolates.
RESULTS: Of 824 participants randomized into 1 of the 4 groups, 814 received at 
least 1 dose of trial medication (median [IQR] age, 2.5 years [1.6-2.7]; 421 
[52%] males and 393 [48%] females), and the primary outcome was available for 
789 (97%). For lower vs higher dose, the primary outcome occurred in 12.6% with 
lower dose vs 12.4% with higher dose (difference, 0.2% [1-sided 95% CI -∞ to 
4.0%]), and in 12.5% with 3-day treatment vs 12.5% with 7-day treatment 
(difference, 0.1% [1-sided 95% CI -∞ to 3.9]). Both groups demonstrated 
noninferiority with no significant interaction between dose and duration 
(P = .63). Of the 14 prespecified secondary end points, the only significant 
differences were 3-day vs 7-day treatment for cough duration (median 12 days vs 
10 days; hazard ratio [HR], 1.2 [95% CI, 1.0 to 1.4]; P = .04) and sleep 
disturbed by cough (median, 4 days vs 4 days; HR, 1.2 [95% CI, 1.0 to 1.4]; 
P = .03). Among the subgroup of children with severe CAP, the primary end point 
occurred in 17.3% of lower-dose recipients vs 13.5% of higher-dose recipients 
(difference, 3.8% [1-sided 95% CI, -∞ to10%]; P value for interaction = .18) and 
in 16.0% with 3-day treatment vs 14.8% with 7-day treatment (difference, 1.2% 
[1-sided 95% CI, -∞ to 7.4%]; P value for interaction = .73).
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Among children with CAP discharged from an emergency 
department or hospital ward (within 48 hours), lower-dose outpatient oral 
amoxicillin was noninferior to higher dose, and 3-day duration was noninferior 
to 7 days, with regard to need for antibiotic re-treatment. However, disease 
severity, treatment setting, prior antibiotics received, and acceptability of 
the noninferiority margin require consideration when interpreting the findings.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN Identifier: ISRCTN76888927.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2021.17843
PMCID: PMC8564579
PMID: 34726708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr Bielicki 
reported grants from the National Institute of Health Research (NIHR; grant No. 
13/88/11) during the conduct of the study; her spouse was senior corporate 
counsel at Novartis International AG, Basel, Switzerland until June 2020 and 
owns stock and stock options. Dr Barratt reported grants from (NIHR) Health 
Technology Assessment (HTA) (grant No. 13/88/11) during the conduct of the 
study. Dr Roland reported being chair of Paediatric Emergency Research United 
Kingdom and Ireland (PERUKI). Dr Sturgeon reported grants from NIHR HTA (HTA 
project ID, 13/88/11) during the conduct of the study. Dr Finn reported grants 
from UK Research and Innovation-NIHR/HTA funding for laboratory work during the 
conduct of the study, and grants from Pfizer collaborative outside the submitted 
work. Dr Faust reported grants from NIHR during the conduct of the study; other 
(fees paid to the institution for advisory board participation) from Medimmune, 
Sanofi, Pfizer, Seqrius, Sandoz, and Merck; grants for serving as clinical trial 
investigator on behalf of the institution (no personal payments of any kind) 
from Pfizer, Sanofi, GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson & Johnson, Merck, AstraZeneca, and 
Valneva outside the submitted work. Dr Sharland reported grants from NIHR HTA 
(grant No. 13/88/11) during the conduct of the study. No other disclosures were 
reported.


2. Digestion. 2022;103(1):62-68. doi: 10.1159/000519413. Epub 2021 Oct 18.

The Ideal Helicobacter pylori Treatment for the Present and the Future.

Suzuki S(1), Kusano C(2), Horii T(3), Ichijima R(3), Ikehara H(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Medicine, Nihon 
University School of Medicine, Itabashi City, Japan, 
s.sho.salubriter.mail@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, Internal Medicine, Kitasato University School 
of Medicine, Sagamihara, Japan.
(3)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Medicine, Nihon 
University School of Medicine, Itabashi City, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Helicobacter pylori eradication treatments are widely performed to 
improve gastric mucosal inflammation, promote ulcer healing, and reduce the 
incidence of gastric cancer. However, there are several issues associated with 
H. pylori eradication treatment. First, various treatment regimens are currently 
used worldwide, and the standard treatment varies with region and country. 
Second, the antimicrobial resistance of H. pylori is increasing due to 
indiscriminate antibiotic use. Finally, gut microbiota dysbiosis is potentially 
induced by H. pylori treatment.
SUMMARY: Based on current international guidelines and a network meta-analysis 
comparing the effects of various treatment regimens, nonbismuth quadruple 
therapies for 10-14 days and vonoprazan-based triple therapy for 7 days are the 
currently recommended H. pylori treatment regimens. These regimens show good 
eradication rates of approximately 90%, even in areas where 
antimicrobial-resistant strains are highly prevalent. However, these regimens 
still have inherent drawbacks that may promote further increases in 
antimicrobial resistance and induce gut microbiota dysbiosis because of the 
empiric use of multiple antibiotics. Key Message: The ideal concept for the 
present and future H. pylori eradication treatment involves "a simple, 
cost-effective strategy that fosters compliance without having a negative impact 
on the gut microbiota or contributing to future antimicrobial resistance." One 
interesting possibility that may fulfill this concept is a dual therapy 
involving vonoprazan and amoxicillin. This is the simplest treatment regimen 
that provides acceptable eradication rates, improves safety and tolerability, 
and minimizes the potential for increasing antimicrobial resistance or causing 
gut microbiota dysbiosis.

© 2021 The Author(s) Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000519413
PMID: 34662879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Acute Otitis Media.

Danishyar A(1), Ashurst JV(2).

In: StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2024 
Jan–.
2023 Apr 15.

Author information:
(1)Midwestern University
(2)Kingman Regional Medical Center

Acute otitis media is defined as an infection of the middle ear space. It is a 
spectrum of diseases that includes acute otitis media (AOM), chronic suppurative 
otitis media (CSOM), and otitis media with effusion (OME). Acute otitis media is 
the second most common pediatric diagnosis in the emergency department, 
following upper respiratory infections. Although otitis media can occur at any 
age, it is most commonly seen between the ages of 6 to 24 months. Infection of 
the middle ear can be viral, bacterial, or coinfection. The most common 
bacterial organisms causing otitis media are Streptococcus pneumoniae, followed 
by non-typeable Haemophilus influenzae (NTHi) and Moraxella catarrhalis. 
Following the introduction of the conjugate pneumococcal vaccines, the 
pneumococcal organisms have evolved to non-vaccine serotypes. The most common 
viral pathogens of otitis media include the respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), 
coronaviruses, influenza viruses, adenoviruses, human metapneumovirus, and 
picornaviruses. Otitis media is diagnosed clinically via objective findings on 
physical exam (otoscopy) combined with the patient's history and presenting 
signs and symptoms. Several diagnostic tools are available such as a pneumatic 
otoscope, tympanometry, and acoustic reflectometry, to aid in the diagnosis 
of otitis media. Pneumatic otoscopy is the most reliable and has a higher 
sensitivity and specificity as compared to plain otoscopy, though tympanometry 
and other modalities can facilitate diagnosis if pneumatic otoscopy is 
unavailable. Treatment of otitis media with antibiotics is controversial and 
directly related to the subtype of otitis media in question. Without proper 
treatment, suppurative fluid from the middle ear can extend to the adjacent 
anatomical locations and result in complications such as tympanic membrane (TM) 
perforation, mastoiditis, labyrinthitis, petrositis, meningitis, brain abscess, 
hearing loss, lateral and cavernous sinus thrombosis, and others. This has led 
to the development of specific guidelines for the treatment of OM.  In the 
United States, the mainstay of treatment for an established diagnosis of AOM is 
high-dose amoxicillin, and this has been found to be most effective in children 
under two years of age. Treatment in countries like the Netherlands is initially 
watchful waiting, and if unresolved, antibiotics are warranted. However, the 
concept of watchful waiting has not gained full acceptance in the United States 
and other countries due to the risk of prolonged middle ear fluid and its effect 
on hearing and speech, as well as the risks of complications discussed earlier. 
Analgesics such as non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medications such as ibuprofen 
can be used alone or in combination to achieve effective pain control in 
patients with otitis media.

Copyright © 2024, StatPearls Publishing LLC.

PMID: 29262176

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: Amina Danishyar declares no relevant 
financial relationships with ineligible companies. Disclosure: John Ashurst 
declares no relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies.


4. Amoxicillin and Clavulanic Acid.

Drugs and Lactation Database (LactMed®) [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National 
Institute of Child Health and Human Development; 2006–.
2024 Jun 15.

Limited information indicates that adverse reactions in infants are uncommon 
during the use of amoxicillin-clavulanic acid during nursing. 
Amoxicillin-clavulanic acid is acceptable in nursing mothers. Monitor the infant 
for restlessness, diarrhea and rash.

PMID: 29999835


5. Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2022 May;45(5):392-417. doi: 
10.1016/j.gastrohep.2021.07.011. Epub 2021 Oct 7.

V Spanish Consensus Conference on Helicobacter pylori infection treatment.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Gisbert JP(1), Alcedo J(2), Amador J(3), Bujanda L(4), Calvet X(5), 
Castro-Fernández M(6), Fernández-Salazar L(7), Gené E(8), Lanas Á(9), Lucendo 
AJ(10), Molina-Infante J(11), Nyssen OP(12), Pérez-Aisa A(13), Puig I(14).

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Aparato Digestivo, Hospital Universitario de La Princesa, 
Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria Princesa (IIS-IP), Universidad Autónoma de 
Madrid (UAM), Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades Hepáticas 
y Digestivas (CIBEREHD), Madrid, España. Electronic address: 
javier.p.gisbert@gmail.com.
(2)Servicio de Aparato Digestivo, Hospital Universitario Miguel Servet, 
Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria de Aragón (IIS Aragón), Zaragoza, España.
(3)Medicina de Familia, Centro de Salud Los Ángeles, Dirección Asistencial 
Centro, SERMAS, Madrid, España.
(4)Servicio de Aparato Digestivo, Hospital Donostia/Instituto Biodonostia, 
Universidad del País Vasco UPV/EHU, CIBEREHD, San Sebastián, España.
(5)Servicio de Aparato Digestivo, Hospital Parc Taulí, Universitat Autónoma de 
Barcelona, CIBEREHD, Sabadell, Barcelona, España.
(6)Servicio Aparato Digestivo, Hospital Universitario de Valme, CIBEREHD, 
Sevilla, España.
(7)Servicio de Aparato Digestivo, Hospital Clínico Universitario de Valladolid, 
Gerencia Regional de Salud (SACYL), Universidad de Valladolid, Valladolid, 
España.
(8)Servicio de Urgencias, Hospital Parc Taulí Sabadell, CIBEREHD, Universitat 
Internacional de Catalunya, Barcelona, España.
(9)Servicio de Aparato Digestivo, Hospital Clínico Universitario de Zaragoza, 
Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria de Aragón (IIS Aragón), CIBEREHD, Zaragoza.
(10)Servicio de Aparato Digestivo, Hospital General de Tomelloso, CIBEREHD, 
Ciudad Real, España.
(11)Servicio de Aparato Digestivo, Hospital Universitario de Cáceres, CIBEREHD, 
Cáceres, España.
(12)Servicio de Aparato Digestivo, Hospital Universitario de La Princesa, 
Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria Princesa (IIS-IP), Universidad Autónoma de 
Madrid (UAM), Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades Hepáticas 
y Digestivas (CIBEREHD), Madrid, España.
(13)Servicio de Aparato Digestivo, Agencia Sanitaria Costa del Sol, Marbella, 
Málaga, España.
(14)Servicio de Aparato Digestivo, Althaia Xarxa Assistencial Universitària de 
Manresa, Universitat de Vic-Universitat Central de Catalunya (UVicUCC), Manresa, 
Barcelona, España.

Helicobacter pylori infection is very common in the Spanish population and 
represents the main cause of chronic gastritis, peptic ulcer, and gastric 
cancer. The last iteration of Spanish consensus guidelines on H. pylori 
infection was conducted in 2016. Recent changes in therapeutic schemes along 
with increasing supporting evidence were key for developing the V Spanish 
Consensus Conference (May 2021). Fourteen experts performed a systematic review 
of the scientific evidence and developed a series of recommendations that were 
subjected to an anonymous Delphi process of iterative voting. Scientific 
evidence and the strength of the recommendation were classified using GRADE 
guidelines. An eradication therapy, when prescribed empirically, is considered 
acceptable when it reliably achieves, or preferably surpass, 90% cure rates. 
Currently, only quadruple therapies (with or without bismuth) and generally 
lasting 14 days, accomplish this goal in first- and second-line therapies. A 
non-bismuth quadruple concomitant regimen (proton pump inhibitor, 
clarithromycin, amoxicillin, and metronidazole) or a quadruple bismuth-based 
combination (proton pump inhibitor, bismuth, tetracycline, and metronidazole), 
are recommended as first-line regimens. Rescue therapies after eradication 
failure and management of H. pylori infection in peptic ulcer disease were also 
reviewed.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier España, S.L.U. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gastrohep.2021.07.011
PMID: 34629204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Am J Gastroenterol. 2023 Apr 1;118(4):627-634. doi: 
10.14309/ajg.0000000000002086. Epub 2022 Dec 2.

Ten-Day Vonoprazan-Amoxicillin Dual Therapy as a First-Line Treatment of 
Helicobacter pylori Infection Compared With Bismuth-Containing Quadruple 
Therapy.

Qian HS(1)(2), Li WJ(1)(2), Dang YN(1)(2), Li LR(1)(2), Xu XB(1)(2), Yuan 
L(1)(2), Zhang WF(1)(2), Yang Z(1)(2), Gao X(1)(2), Zhang M(1)(2), Li X(1)(2), 
Zhang GX(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing 
Medical University, Nanjing, Jiangsu Province, China.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, The First School of Clinical Medicine of 
Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, Jiangsu Province, China.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2023 May;176(5):JC54. doi: 10.7326/J23-0028.

INTRODUCTION: No study has investigated the efficacy and safety of 
vonoprazan-amoxicillin dual therapy compared with bismuth quadruple therapy 
(B-quadruple). This study aimed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of 10-day 
vonoprazan-amoxicillin dual therapy as a first-line treatment of Helicobacter 
pylori infection compared with B-quadruple and to explore the optimal dosage of 
amoxicillin in the dual therapy.
METHODS: A total of 375 treatment-naive, H. pylori -infected subjects were 
randomly assigned in a 1:1:1 ratio into 3 regimen groups including VHA-dual 
(vonoprazan 20 mg twice/day + amoxicillin 750 mg 4 times/day), VA-dual 
(vonoprazan 20 mg + amoxicillin 1,000 mg twice/day), and B-quadruple 
(esomeprazole 20 mg + bismuth 200 mg + amoxicillin 1,000 mg + clarithromycin 500 
mg twice/day). Eradication rates, adverse events (AEs), and compliance were 
compared between 3 groups.
RESULTS: The eradication rates of B-quadruple, VHA-dual, and VA-dual were 90.9%, 
93.4%, and 85.1%, respectively, by per-protocol analysis; 89.4%, 92.7%, and 
84.4%, respectively, by modified intention-to-treat analysis; 88.0%, 91.2%, and 
82.4%, respectively, by intention-to-treat analysis. The efficacy of the 
VHA-dual group was not inferior to the B-quadruple group ( P < 0.001), but 
VA-dual did not reach a noninferiority margin of -10%. The AEs rates of the 
B-quadruple group were significantly higher than those of the VHA-dual ( P = 
0.012) and VA-dual ( P = 0.001) groups. There was no significant difference in 
medication compliance among 3 treatment groups ( P = 0.995).
CONCLUSIONS: The 10-day VHA-dual therapy provided satisfactory eradication rates 
of >90%, lower AEs rates, and similar adherence compared with B-quadruple 
therapy as a first-line therapy for H. pylori infection. However, the efficacy 
of VA-dual therapy was not acceptable.

Copyright © 2022 by The American College of Gastroenterology.

DOI: 10.14309/ajg.0000000000002086
PMID: 36729890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Dig Dis Sci. 2020 Jul;65(7):1917-1931. doi: 10.1007/s10620-020-06193-7.

Helicobacter pylori: A Review of Current Diagnostic and Management Strategies.

Guevara B(1), Cogdill AG(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of California Davis School of 
Medicine, 4150 V Street, Suite 1100, Sacramento, CA, 95817, USA.
(2)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, UC Davis Medical Center, 
University of California Davis School of Medicine, 4150 V Street, Suite 3500, 
Sacramento, CA, 95817, USA. agupt@ucdavis.edu.

As one of the most prevalent infections globally, Helicobacter pylori (H. 
pylori) continues to present diagnostic and therapeutic challenges for 
clinicians worldwide. Diagnostically, the "test-and-treat" strategy is the 
recommended approach for healthcare practitioners when managing this potentially 
curable disease. The choice of testing method should be based on several factors 
including patient age, presenting symptoms, and medication use, as well as test 
reliability, availability, and cost. With rising antibiotic resistance, 
particularly of macrolides, care must be taken to ensure that therapy is 
selected based on regional resistance patterns and prior antibiotic exposure. In 
the USA, macrolide antibiotic resistance rates in some areas have reached or 
exceeded a generally accepted threshold, such that clarithromycin triple therapy 
may no longer be an appropriate first-line empiric treatment. Instead, bismuth 
quadruple therapy should be considered, while levofloxacin-based or alternative 
macrolide-containing therapies are also options. Once treated, it is essential 
to test for eradication as untreated H. pylori is associated with serious 
complications including peptic ulcer disease, mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue 
lymphoma, and gastric cancer. This review article aims to consolidate current 
knowledge of H. pylori infection with a particular emphasis on diagnostic and 
treatment strategies.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-020-06193-7
PMID: 32170476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2004 Jan;130(1 Suppl):1-45. doi: 
10.1016/j.otohns.2003.12.003.

Antimicrobial treatment guidelines for acute bacterial rhinosinusitis.

Anon JB(1), Jacobs MR, Poole MD, Ambrose PG, Benninger MS, Hadley JA, Craig WA; 
Sinus And Allergy Health Partnership.

Author information:
(1)University of Pittsburgh, School of Medicine, USA.

Erratum in
    Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2004 Jun;130(6):794-6.

Treatment guidelines developed by the Sinus and Allergy Health Partnership for 
acute bacterial rhinosinusitis (ABRS) were originally published in 2000. These 
guidelines were designed to: (1) educate clinicians and patients (or patients’ 
families) about the differences between viral and bacterial rhinosinusitis; (2) 
reduce the use of antibiotics for nonbacterial nasal/sinus disease; (3) provide 
recommendations for the diagnosis and optimal treatment of ABRS; (4) promote the 
use of appropriate antibiotic therapy when bacterial infection is likely; and 
(5) describe the current understanding of pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamics 
and how they relate to the effectiveness of antimicrobial therapy. The original 
guidelines are updated here to include the most recent information on management 
principles, antimicrobial susceptibility patterns, and therapeutic options.
BURDEN OF DISEASE: An estimated 20 million cases of ABRS occur annually in the 
United States. According to National Ambulatory Medical Care Survey (NAMCS) 
data, sinusitis is the fifth most common diagnosis for which an antibiotic is 
prescribed. Sinusitis accounted for 9% and 21% of all pediatric and adult 
antibiotic prescriptions, respectively, written in 2002. The primary diagnosis 
of sinusitis results in expenditures of approximately $3.5 billion per year in 
the United States.
DEFINITION AND DIAGNOSIS OF ABRS: ABRS is most often preceded by a viral upper 
respiratory tract infection (URI). Allergy, trauma, dental infection, or other 
factors that lead to inflammation of the nose and paranasal sinuses may also 
predispose individuals to developing ABRS. Patients with a “common cold” (viral 
URI) usually report some combination of the following symptoms: sneezing, 
rhinorrhea, nasal congestion, hyposmia/anosmia, facial pressure, postnasal drip, 
sore throat, cough, ear fullness, fever, and myalgia. A change in the color or 
the characteristic of the nasal discharge is not a specific sign of a bacterial 
infection. Bacterial superinfection may occur at any time during the course of a 
viral URI. The risk that bacterial superinfection has occurred is greater if the 
illness is still present after 10 days. Because there may be cases that fall out 
of the “norm” of this typical progression, practicing clinicians need to rely on 
their clinical judgment when using these guidelines. In general, however, a 
diagnosis of ABRS may be made in adults or children with symptoms of a viral URI 
that have not improved after 10 days or worsen after 5 to 7 days. There may be 
some or all of the following signs and symptoms: nasal drainage, nasal 
congestion, facial pressure/pain (especially when unilateral and focused in the 
region of a particular sinus), postnasal drainage, hyposmia/anosmia, fever, 
cough, fatigue, maxillary dental pain, and ear pressure/fullness. Physical 
examination provides limited information in the diagnosis of ABRS. While 
sometimes helpful, plain film radiographs, computed tomography (CT), and 
magnetic resonance imaging scans are not necessary for cases of ABRS.
MICROBIOLOGY OF ABRS: The most common bacterial species isolated from the 
maxillary sinuses of patients with ABRS are Streptococcus pneumoniae, 
Haemophilus influenzae, and Moraxella catarrhalis, the latter being more common 
in children. Other streptococcal species, anaerobic bacteria and Staphylococcus 
aureus cause a small percentage of cases.
BACTERIAL RESISTANCE IN ABRS: The increasing prevalence of penicillin 
nonsusceptibility and resistance to other drug classes among S pneumoniae has 
been a problem in the United States, with 15% being penicillin-intermediate and 
25% being penicillin-resistant in recent studies. Resistance to macrolides and 
trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (TMP/SMX) is also common in S pneumoniae. The 
prevalence of β-lactamase-producing isolates of H influenzae is approximately 
30%, while essentially all M catarrhalis isolates produce β-lactamases. 
Resistance of H influenzae to TMP/SMX is also common.
ANTIMICROBIAL TREATMENT GUIDELINES FOR ABRS: These guidelines apply to both 
adults and children. When selecting antibiotic therapy for ABRS, the clinician 
should consider the severity of the disease, the rate of progression of the 
disease, and recent antibiotic exposure. The guidelines now divide patients with 
ABRS into two general categories: (1) those with mild symptoms who have not 
received antibiotics within the past 4 to 6 weeks, and (2) those with mild 
disease who have received antibiotics within the past 4 to 6 weeks or those with 
moderate disease regardless of recent antibiotic exposure. The difference in 
severity of disease does not imply infection with a resistant pathogen. Rather, 
this terminology indicates the relative degree of acceptance of possible 
treatment failure and the likelihood of spontaneous resolution of 
symptoms—patients with more severe symptoms are less likely to resolve their 
disease spontaneously. The primary goal of antibiotic therapy is to eradicate 
bacteria from the site of infection, which, in turn, helps (1) return the 
sinuses back to health; (2) decrease the duration of symptoms to allow patients 
to resume daily activities more quickly; (3) prevent severe complications such 
as meningitis and brain abscess; and (4) decrease the development of chronic 
disease. Severe or life-threatening infections with or without complications are 
rare, and are not addressed in these guidelines. Prior antibiotic use is a major 
risk factor associated with the development of infection with 
antimicrobial-resistant strains. Because recent antimicrobial exposure increases 
the risk of carriage of and infection due to resistant organisms, antimicrobial 
therapy should be based upon the patient’s history of recent antibiotic use. The 
panel’s guidelines, therefore, stratify patients according to antibiotic 
exposure in the previous 4 to 6 weeks. Lack of response to therapy at ≥72 hours 
is an arbitrary time established to define treatment failures. Clinicians should 
monitor the response to antibiotic therapy, which may include instructing the 
patient to call the office or clinic if symptoms persist or worsen over the next 
few days. The predicted bacteriologic and clinical efficacy of antibiotics in 
adults and children has been determined according to mathematical modeling of 
ABRS developed by Michael Poole, MD, PhD, based on pathogen distribution, 
resolution rates without treatment, and in vitro microbiologic activity. 
Antibiotics can be placed into the following relative rank order of predicted 
clinical efficacy for adults: 90% to 92% = respiratory fluoroquinolones 
(gatifloxacin, levofloxacin, moxifloxacin), ceftriaxone, high-dose 
amoxicillin/clavulanate (4 g/250 mg/day), and amoxicillin/clavulanate (1.75 
g/250 mg/day); 83% to 88% = high-dose amoxicillin (4 g/day), amoxicillin (1.5 
g/day), cefpodoxime proxetil, cefixime (based on H influenzae and M catarrhalis 
coverage), cefuroxime axetil, cefdinir, and TMP/SMX; 77% to 81% = doxycycline, 
clindamycin (based on gram-positive coverage only), azithromycin, clarithromycin 
and erythromycin, and telithromycin; 65% to 66% = cefaclor and loracarbef. The 
predicted spontaneous resolution rate in patients with a clinical diagnosis of 
ABRS is 62%. Antibiotics can be placed into the following relative rank order of 
predicted clinical efficacy in children with ABRS: 91% to 92% = ceftriaxone, 
high-dose amoxicillin/clavulanate (90 mg/6.4 mg per kg per day) and 
amoxicillin/clavulanate (45 mg/6.4 mg per kg per day); 82% to 87% = high-dose 
amoxicillin (90 mg/kg per day), amoxicillin (45 mg/kg per day), cefpodoxime 
proxetil, cefixime (based on H influenzae and M catarrhalis coverage only), 
cefuroxime axetil, cefdinir, and TMP/SMX; and 78% to 80% = clindamycin (based on 
gram-positive coverage only), cefprozil, azithromycin, clarithromycin, and 
erythromycin; 67% to 68% = cefaclor and loracarbef. The predicted spontaneous 
resolution rate in untreated children with a presumed diagnosis of ABRS is 63%. 
Recommendations for initial therapy for adult patients with mild disease (who 
have not received antibiotics in the previous 4 to 6 weeks) include the 
following choices: amoxicillin/clavulanate (1.75 to 4 g/250 mg per day), 
amoxicillin (1.5 to 4 g/day), cefpodoxime proxetil, cefuroxime axetil, or 
cefdinir. While TMP/SMX, doxycycline, azithromycin, clarithromycin, 
erythromycin, or telithromycin may be considered for patients with β-lactam 
allergies, bacteriologic failure rates of 20% to 25% are possible. Failure to 
respond to antimicrobial therapy after 72 hours should prompt either a switch to 
alternate antimicrobial therapy or reevaluation of the patient (see Table 
4).When a change in antibiotic therapy is made, the clinician should consider 
the limitations in coverage of the initial agent. Recommendations for initial 
therapy for adults with mild disease who have received antibiotics in the 
previous 4 to 6 weeks or adults with moderate disease include the following 
choices: respiratory fluoroquinolone (eg, gatifloxacin, levofloxacin, 
moxifloxacin) or high-dose amoxicillin/clavulanate (4 g/250 mg per day). The 
widespread use of respiratory fluoroquinolones for patients with milder disease 
may promote resistance of a wide spectrum of organisms to this class of agents. 
Ceftriaxone (parenteral, 1 to 2 g/day for 5 days) or combination therapy with 
adequate gram-positive and negative coverage may also be considered. Examples of 
appropriate regimens of combination therapy include high-dose amoxicillin or 
clindamycin plus cefixime, or high-dose amoxicillin or clindamycin plus 
rifampin. While the clinical effectiveness of ceftriaxone and these combinations 
for ABRS is unproven; the panel considers these reasonable therapeutic options 
based on the spectrum of activity of these agents and on data extrapolated from 
acute otitis media studies. Rifampin should not be used as monotherapy, 
casually, or for longer than 10 to 14 days, as resistance quickly develops to 
this agent. Rifampin is also a well-known inducer of several cytochrome p450 
isoenzymes and therefore has a high potential for drug interactions. Failure of 
a patient to respond to antimicrobial therapy after 72 hours of therapy should 
prompt either a switch to alternate antimicrobial therapy or reevaluation of the 
patient (see Table 4). When a change in antibiotic therapy is made, the 
clinician should consider the limitations in coverage of the initial agent. 
Patients who have received effective antibiotic therapy and continue to be 
symptomatic may need further evaluation. A CT scan, fiberoptic endoscopy or 
sinus aspiration and culture may be necessary. Recommendations for initial 
therapy for children with mild disease and who have not received antibiotics in 
the previous 4 to 6 weeks include the following: high-dose 
amoxicillin/clavulanate (90 mg/6.4 mg per kg per day), amoxicillin (90 mg/kg per 
day), cefpodoxime proxetil, cefuroxime axetil, or cefdinir. TMP/SMX, 
azithromycin, clarithromycin, or erythromycin is recommended if the patient has 
a history of immediate Type I hypersensitivity reaction to β-lactams. These 
antibiotics have limited effectiveness against the major pathogens of ABRS and 
bacterial failure of 20% to 25% is possible. The clinician should differentiate 
an immediate hypersensitivity reaction from other less dangerous side effects. 
Children with immediate hypersensitivity reactions to β-lactams may need: 
desensitization, sinus cultures, or other ancillary procedures and studies. 
Children with other types of reactions and side effects may tolerate one 
specific β-lactam, but not another. Failure to respond to antimicrobial therapy 
after 72 hours should prompt either a switch to alternate antimicrobial therapy 
or reevaluation of the patient (see Table 5).When a change in antibiotic therapy 
is made, the clinician should consider the limitations in coverage of the 
initial agent. The recommended initial therapy for children with mild disease 
who have received antibiotics in the previous 4 to 6 weeks or children with 
moderate disease is high-dose amoxicillin/clavulanate (90 mg/6.4 mg per kg per 
day). Cefpodoxime proxetil, cefuroxime axetil, or cefdinir may be used if there 
is a penicillin allergy (eg, penicillin rash); in such instances, cefdinir is 
preferred because of high patient acceptance. TMP/SMX, azithromycin, 
clarithromycin, or erythromycin is recommended if the patient is β-lactam 
allergic, but these do not provide optimal coverage. Clindamycin is appropriate 
if S pneumoniae is identified as a pathogen. Ceftriaxone (parenteral, 50 mg/kg 
per day for 5 days) or combination therapy with adequate gram-positive and 
-negative coverage may also be considered. Examples of appropriate regimens of 
combination therapy include high-dose amoxicillin or clindamycin plus cefixime, 
or high-dose amoxicillin or clindamycin plus rifampin. The clinical 
effectiveness of ceftriaxone and these combinations for ABRS is unproven; the 
panel considers these reasonable therapeutic options based on spectrum of 
activity and on data extrapolated from acute otitis media studies. Rifampin 
should not be used as monotherapy, casually, or for longer than 10 to 14 days as 
resistance quickly develops to this agent. Failure to respond to antimicrobial 
therapy after 72 hours of therapy should prompt either a switch to alternate 
antimicrobial therapy or reevaluation of the patient (see Table 5). When a 
change in antibiotic therapy is made, the clinician should consider the 
limitations in coverage of the initial agent. Patients who have received 
effective antibiotic therapy and continue to be symptomatic may need further 
evaluation. A CT scan, fiberoptic endoscopy or sinus aspiration and culture may 
be necessary.

DOI: 10.1016/j.otohns.2003.12.003
PMCID: PMC7118847
PMID: 14726904 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Amoxicillin.

Drugs and Lactation Database (LactMed®) [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National 
Institute of Child Health and Human Development; 2006–.
2024 Jun 15.

Limited information indicates that amoxicillin produces low levels in milk that 
are not expected to cause adverse effects in breastfed infants. Occasionally, 
rash and disruption of the infant's gastrointestinal flora, resulting in 
diarrhea or thrush, have been reported, but these effects have not been 
adequately evaluated. Amoxicillin is acceptable in nursing mothers. Amoxicillin 
powder for suspension reconstituted with breastmilk is absorbed as well as the 
powder reconstituted with water.[1]

PMID: 29999946


10. Chin Med J (Engl). 2022 Dec 20;135(24):2899-2910. doi: 
10.1097/CM9.0000000000002546.

2022 Chinese national clinical practice guideline on Helicobacter pylori 
eradication treatment.

Zhou L(1), Lu H(2), Song Z(1), Lyu B(3), Chen Y(4), Wang J(5), Xia J(6)(7), Zhao 
Z(8); Helicobacter Pylori Study Group of Chinese Society of Gastroenterology.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Peking University Third Hospital, Beijing 
100191, China.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, Renji Hospital, School of Medicine, Shanghai 
Jiao Tong University, Shanghai 200127, China.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhejiang 
Chinese Medical University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 310018, China.
(4)Department of Gastroenterology, Nanfang Hospital, Southern Medical 
University, Guangzhou, Guangdong 510515, China.
(5)Department of Gastroenterology, Fudan University Affiliated Zhongshan 
Hospital, Shanghai 200032, China.
(6)Nottingham Ningbo GRADE Center, Nottingham China Health Institute, University 
of Nottingham Ningbo China, Ningbo, Zhejiang 315100, China.
(7)Academic Unit of Lifespan and Population Health, School of Medicine, The 
University of Nottingham, Nottingham, UK.
(8)Systematic Review Solutions Ltd, Shanghai 201403, China.

Erratum in
    Chin Med J (Engl). 2024 May 5;137(9):1068. doi: 
10.1097/CM9.0000000000003134.

Comment in
    Clin Exp Med. 2023 Nov;23(7):4037-4039. doi: 10.1007/s10238-023-01099-w.

BACKGROUND: Helicobacter pylori ( H. pylori ) infection is an infectious disease 
with a prevalence rate of up to 50% worldwide. It can cause indigestion, 
gastritis, peptic ulcer, and gastric cancer. H. pylori eradication treatment can 
effectively control disease progression and reduce the risk of the above 
conditions. However, the escalating trend of antibiotic resistance presents a 
global challenge for H. pylori eradication. We aim to provide guidance on 
pharmacological treatment of H. pylori infection.
METHODS: This clinical practice guideline is developed following the World 
Health Organization's recommended process, adopting Grading of Recommendations 
Assessment, Development and Evaluation in assessing evidence quality, and 
utilizing Evidence to Decision framework to formulate clinical recommendations, 
minimizing bias and increasing transparency of the clinical practice guideline 
development process. We used the Reporting Items for practice Guidelines in 
HealThcare (RIGHT) statement and The Appraisal of Guidelines for Research and 
Evaluation II (AGREE II) as reporting and conduct guides to ensure the 
guideline's completeness and transparency.
RESULTS: Though decreasing in developed countries, the prevalence of H. pylori 
remains high in developing countries, causing a major public health burden. This 
clinical practice guideline contains 12 recommendations concerning 
pharmacological treatment for H. pylori eradication. Among them, it is worth 
highlighting that bismuth preparations are inexpensive, safe, and effective, 
consequently making bismuth quadruple therapy a preferred choice for initial and 
rescue treatment. In empirical treatment, high-dose dual therapy is equally 
effective compared with bismuth quadruple therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: The 12 recommendations in this clinical practice guideline are 
formed with consideration for stakeholders' values and preferences, resource 
use, feasibility, and acceptability. Recommendations are generalizable to 
resource limited settings with similar antibiotic resistance pattern as China, 
and lower middle-income countries facing comparable sociological and technical 
challenges.
REGISTRATION: Guidelines International Network (GIN) website, 
https://guidelines.ebmportal.com/node/69996 .

Copyright © 2022 The Chinese Medical Association, produced by Wolters Kluwer, 
Inc. under the CC-BY-NC-ND license.

DOI: 10.1097/CM9.0000000000002546
PMCID: PMC10106216
PMID: 36579940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None.


11. J Vet Intern Med. 2021 Jan;35(1):456-461. doi: 10.1111/jvim.15991. Epub 2020 Dec 
6.

Evaluation of urine concentrations of amoxicillin and clavulanate in cats.

KuKanich K(1), Woodruff K(1), Bieberly Z(1), Papich MG(2), KuKanich B(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences, Kansas State University College of 
Veterinary Medicine, Manhattan, Kansas, USA.
(2)Department of Molecular Biomedical Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine, 
North Carolina State University, Raleigh, North Carolina, USA.
(3)Department of Anatomy and Physiology, Kansas State University College of 
Veterinary Medicine, Manhattan, Kansas, USA.

BACKGROUND: To characterize urinary isolates, the Clinical and Laboratory 
Standards Institute (CLSI) uses an amoxicillin breakpoint for cats based on 
plasma (not urine) drug concentrations (≤0.25 μg/mL), but a urine-specific 
breakpoint for dogs exists (≤8 μg/mL).
OBJECTIVES: To measure urine concentrations of amoxicillin and clavulanate after 
PO administration of amoxicillin-clavulanate to cats, and to suggest updated 
urine-specific susceptibility breakpoints for PO amoxicillin and 
amoxicillin-clavulanate in cats.
ANIMALS: Eleven healthy purpose-bred cats.
METHODS: Cats were given 3 62.5 mg doses of amoxicillin-clavulanate PO q12h. 
After the third dose, urine was collected over 28 hours, recording urination 
time and volume. At least 3 urine samples were collected per cat. Liquid 
chromatography with mass spectrometry was used to determine the urine 
concentrations of amoxicillin and clavulanate.
RESULTS: Amoxicillin concentrations were >8 μg/mL in all urine samples collected 
within 12 hours after administration (range, 31.6-1351 μg/mL), with means of 
929 μg/mL (0-6 hours) and 532 μg/mL (6-12 hours). The mean half-life of 
amoxicillin in urine was 1.99 hours, and mean recovery was 30%. Clavulanate was 
detected in all urine samples, with mean half-life of 2.17 hours.
CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL IMPORTANCE: Orally administered amoxicillin-clavulanate 
resulted in urine amoxicillin concentrations above the cutoff (8 μg/mL) for 
wild-type Escherichia coli in all cats. Because urine-specific susceptibility 
testing breakpoints can be determined using urine concentrations, this 
information should allow new CLSI uropathogen susceptibility breakpoints for 
amoxicillin and amoxicillin-clavulanate in healthy cats, increasing the urine 
breakpoint from ≤0.25 to ≤8 μg/mL.

© 2020 The Authors. Journal of Veterinary Internal Medicine published by Wiley 
Periodicals LLC. on behalf of the American College of Veterinary Internal 
Medicine.

DOI: 10.1111/jvim.15991
PMCID: PMC7848311
PMID: 33280171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Mark G. Papich has provided consulting, accepted 
gifts, honoraria, and research support from Zoetis the sponsor of the Clavamox 
brand of amoxicillin‐clavulanate, and Dechra, the sponsor of the generic form of 
amoxicillin‐clavulanate. One of the authors (MGP) is a current member, and 
former chair holder of the CLSI‐VAST subcommittee.


12. Curr Opin Clin Nutr Metab Care. 2018 May;21(3):195-199. doi: 
10.1097/MCO.0000000000000465.

Severe acute malnutrition.

Nel E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics and Child Health, Faculty of Medicine and Health 
Sciences, Stellenbosch University, Cape Town, Western Cape, South Africa.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Advances in our understanding of the treatment of severe 
acute malnutrition (SAM) in a resource-limited environment are needed to improve 
outcome.
RECENT FINDINGS: Ready-to-use therapeutic foods (RUTFs) made from local products 
and with reduced milk content lower costs and may be effective in older 
children. None of the therapeutic foods used to treat severely malnourished 
children correct long chain polyunsaturated fatty acid deficiencies.Routine 
short-term antibiotic (amoxicillin) treatment, in the context of adequate 
healthcare supervision, does not improve the recovery rate. Long-term antibiotic 
(cotrimoxazole) treatment also does not provide significant benefit to 
non-HIV-infected children.Increased pathogenic bacteria have been found in the 
intestinal microbiome of malnourished children and candidate organisms for use 
as probiotics have been identified. There is, however, no evidence to support 
the routine use of probiotics in these children. Although exocrine pancreatic 
function is reduced in malnourished children, routine pancreatic enzyme 
supplementation does not lead to accelerated recovery.
SUMMARY: Alternative RUTF may provide a cheaper and more acceptable alternative 
to standard RUTF in the near future. Further research is needed to understand 
the implications of fatty acid deficiencies and dysbiosis that occur in 
malnourished children. Routine antibiotic administration in the appropriate 
setting is unnecessary.

DOI: 10.1097/MCO.0000000000000465
PMID: 29461265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2022 Sep;37(9):1666-1672. doi: 10.1111/jgh.15917. Epub 
2022 Jun 27.

Amoxicillin-vonoprazan dual therapy for Helicobacter pylori eradication: A 
systematic review and meta-analysis.

Ouyang Y(1), Wang M(2), Xu YL(2), Zhu Y(1), Lu NH(1), Hu Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department Of Gastroenterology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang 
University, Nanchang, China.
(2)Medical College of Nanchang University, Nanchang, China.

BACKGROUND AND AIM: The efficacy and safety of amoxicillin-vonoprazan (VA) dual 
therapy remained unclear.
METHODS: This systematic review was conducted in accordance with the PRISMA 2009 
guidelines. A systematic search of the Pubmed, Embase, and Cochrane database was 
conducted using the combination of "Helicobacter pylori or H. pylori or Hp," 
"amoxicillin or penicillin," and "Vonoprazan or TAK-438 or Takecab or (potassium 
AND competitive) or potassium-competitive." The initial and secondary outcome of 
this meta-analysis was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of VA dual therapy.
RESULTS: Three studies and 668 H. pylori infected patients were included in this 
meta-analysis. The crude eradication rate of VA dual therapy was 87.5% and 89.6% 
by ITT and PP analysis, respectively. No significant differences were observed 
regarding the VA dual therapy and vonoprazan-amoxicillin-clarithromycin (VAC) 
triple therapy according to ITT (RR = 0.99, 95% CI, 0.93-1.05, P = 0.65) and PP 
(RR = 0.99, 95% CI, 0.94-1.05, P = 0.82) analysis. The side effect of VA dual 
therapy was 19.1% (95% CI, 5.9-32.4), which was lower than that of VAC triple 
therapy but there was no statistical significance (RR = 0.75, 95% CI, 0.59-1.06, 
P = 0.12).
CONCLUSION: VA dual therapy shows acceptable efficacy, good safety and avoid 
unnecessary antibiotic use in the first-line treatment for H. pylori infection. 
However, its application in other regions need to be further explored.

© 2022 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and John Wiley & 
Sons Australia, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jgh.15917
PMID: 35716370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Eur J Hosp Pharm. 2023 Dec 27;31(1):2-9. doi: 10.1136/ejhpharm-2023-003855.

Systematic review of room temperature stability of key beta-lactam antibiotics 
for extended infusions in inpatient settings.

Jenkins A(1), Jamieson C(2), Santillo M(3).

Author information:
(1)Pharmacy, University Hospitals Birmingham, Birmingham, UK 
Abigail.jenkins@uhb.nhs.uk.
(2)NHS England, Birmingham, UK.
(3)UK and University Hospitals Bristol and Weston NHS Trust, Plymouth Bristol, 
UK.

BACKGROUND: Extended infusion (EI) of beta-lactam antibiotics may offer clinical 
benefits aligned with improved probability of target attainment for critical 
pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic parameters that correlate with efficacy. There 
is much research interest in prolonged and continuous infusions (collectively, 
extended infusions) of beta-lactams to improve patient outcomes, particularly in 
critically ill patients in intensive care. While definitive clinical trial data 
demonstrating beneficial outcomes is awaited, there has been limited focus on 
the stability of the agents given by EI, which may be an equally critical 
parameter. EI may allow for savings in nursing time due to reduced need for drug 
reconstitution. We set out to examine the data for stability for EI at room 
temperature, consistent with the requirements of 'A Standard Protocol for 
Deriving and Assessment of Stability- Part 1 Aseptic Preparation (Small 
Molecules)', which allows a 5% loss of active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) 
applicable for those territories that use the British Pharmacopoeia also for a 
10% loss applicable in much of rest of the world.
METHODS: Searches using preferred reporting items for systematic reviews and 
meta-analyses (PRISMA) principles for stability data on freshly prepared 
beta-lactam antimicrobials for extended administration at room temperature (at 
or above 23°C) were conducted in November 2021 and updated in December 2022.
RESULTS: We found data to support the extension of the shelf life of 12 key 
beta-lactam antibiotics once reconstituted (aztreonam, amoxicillin, 
benzylpenicillin, flucloxacillin, piperacillin/tazobactam, cefazolin, 
cefmetazole, ceftaroline, ceftazidime, ceftriaxone, imipenem and meropenem) 
compliant with the NHS protocol, and data for five other agents (ticarcillin, 
cefepime, cefiderocol, cefoxitin and doripenem) which would be acceptable in 
regions outside the UK beyond that listed in the Summary of Product 
Characteristics.This review has not been registered under PROSPERO.

© European Association of Hospital Pharmacists 2024. No commercial re-use. See 
rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/ejhpharm-2023-003855
PMCID: PMC11148869
PMID: 37848286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


15. Int J Clin Pharm. 2021 Dec;43(6):1651-1659. doi: 10.1007/s11096-021-01297-0. 
Epub 2021 Jun 17.

Timeliness of administration of amoxicillin-clavulanic acid and meropenem in a 
large tertiary care centre.

Van Wilder A(#)(1), Bruyneel L(#)(2)(3), Decock C(2), Ten Haaf N(2), Peetermans 
WE(4)(5), Debaveye Y(6)(7), Vanhaecht K(2)(3), Spriet I(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Leuven Institute for Healthcare Policy, KU Leuven - University of Leuven, 
Kapucijnenvoer 35, Leuven, Belgium. astrid.vanwilder@kuleuven.be.
(2)Leuven Institute for Healthcare Policy, KU Leuven - University of Leuven, 
Kapucijnenvoer 35, Leuven, Belgium.
(3)Department of Quality Improvement, University Hospitals Leuven, 
Kapucijnenvoer 35, Leuven, Belgium.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine, University Hospitals Leuven, Leuven, 
Belgium.
(5)Department of Immunology and Microbiology, KU Leuven - University of Leuven, 
Herestraat 49, Leuven, Belgium.
(6)Department of Intensive Care Medicine, University Hospitals Leuven, Leuven, 
Belgium.
(7)Department of Cellular and Molecular Medicine, KU Leuven - University of 
Leuven, Herestraat 49, Leuven, Belgium.
(8)Pharmacy Department, University Hospitals Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(9)Department of Pharmaceutical and Pharmacological Sciences, KU Leuven - 
University of Leuven, Herestraat 49, Leuven, Belgium.
(#)Contributed equally

Background For amoxicillin-clavulanic acid and meropenem to be effective, 
concentrations must exceed the minimum inhibitory concentration of infecting 
pathogens. Objective To retrospectively evaluate time windows between both 
scheduled prescription and administration and reconstitution-preparation and end 
of administration of intravenous amoxicillin-clavulanic acid and meropenem 
prescriptions. Setting 37 hospital wards at a tertiary hospital, Belgium. Method 
All adult hospital stays with at least one amoxicillin-clavulanic acid or 
meropenem administration in 2018 were reviewed. Time windows were deemed 
acceptable if < 30 min between prescription and administration and < 90 
or < 150 min between reconstitution-preparation and end of administration for 
amoxicillin-clavulanic acid and meropenem, respectively. Main outcome measure 
Time windows between prescription and administration and between 
reconstitution-preparation and administration. Results For 50 273 administered 
prescriptions, both time windows were acceptable in 53.7% of first dose and 
56.4% of follow-up dose administrations. 43.7% of first doses did not respect 
the time window between reconstitution-preparation and administration (2.8%) or 
between prescription and administration (40.9%). These discrepancies equalled 
11.1% and 26.3% for follow-up doses, respectively. Large variation across 
hospital wards was observed. After the first five consecutive administrations, 
93.1% of patients had not received their antibiotics within the time windows 
allowed. The most striking predictor of timely administration with respect to 
both prescription and reconstitution-preparation time was prescription 
synchronisation with nursing administration rounds. Conclusion For 
amoxicillin-clavulanic acid and meropenem, timeliness of 
reconstitution-preparation and administration was appropriate in approximately 
half of administrations. Evaluating and safeguarding the timeliness of 
antibiotic administration should be considered an important aspect of antibiotic 
stewardship.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s11096-021-01297-0
PMID: 34138408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Clin Pharmacol Drug Dev. 2022 Nov;11(11):1314-1321. doi: 10.1002/cpdd.1143. Epub 
2022 Jul 15.

Pharmacokinetics of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium for Suspension (200 
mg/28.5 mg) in Healthy Subjects: Sample Add Stabilizer Study and Food Effects.

Xu SM(1)(2), Qin F(3), Zhang YD(4), Xu PS(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Phase I Clinical Trial Center, Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, 
Changsha, PR China.
(2)National Clinical Research Center for Geriatric Disorders, Xiangya Hospital, 
Central South University, Changsha, PR China.
(3)Guangzhou Baiyunshan Pharmaceutical Holdings Co. Ltd., Baiyunshan 
Pharmaceutical General Factory, Guangzhou, PR China.
(4)Phase I Clinical Trial Center, The First People's Hospital of Chenzhou, 
Chenzhou, PR China.

The present study compares the pharmacokinetics of amoxicillin and clavulanate 
potassium suspension (200 mg/28.5 mg) during fasting and postprandial 
conditions, and the sample adds a stabilizer study. Two randomized, crossover 
trials were conducted in an open-label, single-center study (a fasting trial and 
a postprandial trial). In each part of the study, the subjects were randomly 
assigned to receive either test or reference products (200 mg/28.5 mg) in a 
1:1:1 ratio, followed by the alternative products after a 7-day washout period. 
Plasma amoxicillin and clavulanic acid concentrations were analyzed by liquid 
chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. WinNonlin software was used to evaluate 
the pharmacokinetic parameters (noncompartmental model). The formulations were 
considered bioequivalent if the geometric means of area under the plasma 
concentration-time curve (AUC) and maximum plasma concentration (Cmax ) of 
amoxicillin and clavulanic acid were within the predetermined bioequivalence 
range established by average bioequivalence (ABE) or reference-scaled ABE. 
Tolerability was assessed throughout the study. The postprandial trial and the 
fasting study each had 12 volunteers. Under fasting and postprandial conditions, 
the 90%CI for the ratio of geometric means of amoxicillin of Cmax , AUC from 
time 0 to the last measurable concentration, and AUC from time 0 to infinity 
were within the ABE acceptance limits (80%-125%); the geometric means of 
clavulanic acid of Cmax (critbound, -0.03; point estimate, 1.07) were within the 
reference-scaled ABE acceptance limits, and the AUC from time 0 to the last 
measurable concentration and AUC from time 0 to infinity were within the ABE 
acceptance limits (80%-125%). Time to maximum concentration of amoxicillin was 
delayed 1.0 hour with high-fat meals compared to fasting conditions. Meantime, 
high-fat meals decreased the exposure of clavulanic acid by nearly 40%. No 
serious adverse events were found among the subjects. The bioequivalence of test 
and reference amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for suspension was validated 
in this study under fasting and postprandial conditions.

© 2022, The American College of Clinical Pharmacology.

DOI: 10.1002/cpdd.1143
PMID: 35838110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Front Cell Infect Microbiol. 2022 Jun 2;12:881968. doi: 
10.3389/fcimb.2022.881968. eCollection 2022.

Altered Gut Microbiota and Short-Chain Fatty Acids After Vonoprazan-Amoxicillin 
Dual Therapy for Helicobacter pylori Eradication.

Hu Y(1)(2), Xu X(1)(2), Ouyang YB(1)(2), He C(1)(2), Li NS(1)(2), Xie C(1)(2), 
Peng C(1)(2), Zhu ZH(1)(2), Shu X(1)(2), Xie Y(1)(2), Lu NH(1)(2), Zhu Y(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department Of Gastroenterology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang 
University, Nanchang, China.
(2)JiangXi Clinical Research Center for Gastroenterology, Nanchang, China.

The combination of vonoprazan (VPZ) and amoxicillin (VA therapy) has been shown 
to achieve acceptable eradication rates for Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori). 
Herein, our aim was to explore the short-term effect of VA therapy on the gut 
microbiota and short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) using human fecal samples. A 
total of 119 H. pylori-positive patients were randomized into low- or high-dose 
VA therapy (i.e., amoxicillin 1 g b.i.d. or t.i.d. and VPZ 20 mg b.i.d.) for 7 
or 10 days. Thirteen H. pylori-negative patients served as controls. Fecal 
samples were collected from H. pylori-positive and H. pylori-negative patients. 
The gut microbiota and SCFAs were analyzed using 16S rRNA gene sequencing and 
gas chromatography-mass spectrometry, respectively. The gut microbiota in H. 
pylori-positive patients exhibited increased richness, diversity, and better 
evenness than matched patients. Fifty-three patients studied before and after H. 
pylori eradication were divided into low (L-VA) and high (H-VA) amoxicillin dose 
groups. The diversity and composition of the gut microbiota among L-VA patients 
exhibited no differences at the three time points. However, among H-VA patients, 
diversity was decreased, and the microbial composition was altered immediately 
after H-VA eradication but was restored by the confirmation time point. The 
decreased abundance of Anaerostipes, Dialister, and Lachnospira induced by H-VA 
was associated with altered SCFA levels. VA dual therapy for H. pylori 
eradication has minimal negative effects on gut microbiota and SCFAs.

Copyright © 2022 Hu, Xu, Ouyang, He, Li, Xie, Peng, Zhu, Shu, Xie, Lu and Zhu.

DOI: 10.3389/fcimb.2022.881968
PMCID: PMC9201212
PMID: 35719338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


18. J Basic Clin Physiol Pharmacol. 2020 Jan 
11;30(6):/j/jbcpp.2019.30.issue-6/jbcpp-2019-0247/jbcpp-2019-0247.xml. doi: 
10.1515/jbcpp-2019-0247.

In vitro equivalence of generic and branded amoxicillin tablet by 
microbiological assay method.

Avianto P(1), Mahfudz(1)(2), Suharjono(3), Isnaeni(4), Alderman CP(3)(5).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Pharmacy, Universitas Airlangga, Master Program in Clinical 
Pharmacy, Department of Clinical Pharmacy, Kampus C, UNAIR, Mulyorejo Rd. 
Surabaya, Indonesia.
(2)Pharmacy Section, Bangka Tengah District Health Office, Bangka Belitung, 
Indonesia.
(3)Faculty of Pharmacy, Universitas Airlangga, Department of Clinical Pharmacy, 
Kampus C, UNAIR, Mulyorejo Rd. Surabaya, Indonesia.
(4)Faculty of Pharmacy, Universitas Airlangga, Department of Pharmaceutical 
Chemistry, Kampus C, UNAIR, Mulyorejo Rd. Surabaya, Indonesia.
(5)School of Pharmacy and Medical Sciences, University of South Australia, 
Adelaide, Australia.

Background Indonesian Ministry of Health advocate doctors, especially in 
government-owned healthcare facility, to prescribe generic drugs including 
amoxicillin. Although BPOM (the National Agency of Drug and Food Control) 
already guarantees that the generic amoxicillin and the branded one were 
interchangeable, lack of confidence in generic drugs still remains among 
patients, pharmacists, and doctors. This issue supported by lack of publication 
confirmed the therapeutic equivalence of branded and generic drugs. This study 
aims to evaluate and compare the in vitro microbiological assay of different 
generic and branded amoxicillin that are available in Indonesian market, 
especially those used in government-owned healthcare facilities. Methods 
Microbiological assays for five samples of amoxicillin tablet containing 500 mg 
amoxicillin available in Indonesia were determined using a method from Indonesia 
Pharmacopeia. Samples were coded as Products A to E. The assay was carried out 
by measuring the diameter of the inhibition zones in the plate agar incubated 
with Escherichia coli and Staphylococcus aureus. The obtained data were 
evaluated to determine the sample potency and compared with the amoxicillin 
reference standard. Results Minor and insignificant differences (p > 0.05) were 
found in the diameters of the inhibition zones. Potency ratio measured both in 
E. coli and S. aureus were all between 95% and 105%. The lowest of the tested 
samples were from Product C, which resulted to ratio potencies of 96.3% and 
95.5% in E. coli and S. aureus, respectively. Conclusions All five samples were 
in the range of the acceptance criteria. Therefore, from the view of the 
microbiological assay, these products are in equivalence in quality and are 
interchangeable.

DOI: 10.1515/jbcpp-2019-0247
PMID: 31939272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Anal Sci. 2022 Oct;38(10):1261-1268. doi: 10.1007/s44211-022-00142-2. Epub 2022 
Aug 8.

Algorithm and hyperparameter optimizations for hetero-device classification by 
near-infrared spectra of falsified and substandard amoxicillin capsules.

Hattori Y(1), Hoshi Y(2), Hashimoto N(3), Ichimura Y(3), Sugiura Y(3), Otsuka 
M(4).

Author information:
(1)Research Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Musashino University, 
Nishi-Tokyo City, 1-1-20 Shin-machi, Tokyo, 202-8585, Japan. 
yhattori@musashino-u.ac.jp.
(2)Research Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Musashino University, 
Nishi-Tokyo City, 1-1-20 Shin-machi, Tokyo, 202-8585, Japan.
(3)Bureau of International Health Cooperation, National Center for Global Health 
and Medicine, 1-21-1 Toyama, Shinjyuku-ku, Tokyo, 162-8655, Japan.
(4)Research Institute of Electronics, Shizuoka University, 3-5-1 Johoku, 
Naka-ku, Hamamatsu, Shizuoka, 432-8011, Japan.

In this work, we optimized classification algorithms and the hyperparameters for 
screening falsified and substandard amoxicillin capsules. The distribution of 
low-quality medical products is a serious problem, especially in low- and 
middle-income countries. Near-infrared (NIR) spectroscopy has been proposed as 
the first choice for a screening device. However, preparation of the reference 
library for the classification training is a highly difficult process. We herein 
propose a hetero-device classification between training and test devices. In 
this proposal, Fourier-transform NIR spectrometer and portable wavelength 
dispersive NIR spectrometer were used as training and test devices, 
respectively. As the classifier candidates, we examined 13 algorithms and 
selected 8. We then optimized the hyperparameters for these classifiers by the 
grid search and cross validation methods. In the final analysis, few classifiers 
were found to give acceptable prediction results by the hetero-device 
classification. When using these methods, it is crucial to examine the results 
by the classification probability, due to the trade-off between sensitivity and 
specificity. Finally, we suggest that k-nearest neighbors, extra trees, and 
gradient boosting classifiers are the optimal algorithms with high 
classification probability for the substandard and falsified amoxicillin 
capsules.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to The Japan Society for 
Analytical Chemistry.

DOI: 10.1007/s44211-022-00142-2
PMID: 35939234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Infect Dis Ther. 2023 May;12(5):1415-1427. doi: 10.1007/s40121-023-00811-3. Epub 
2023 May 3.

The Efficacy and Safety of 14-day Rabeprazole Plus Amoxicillin High Dose Dual 
Therapy by Comparing to 14-day Rabeprazole-Containing Hybrid Therapy for the 
Naïve Helicobacter pylori Infection in Taiwan: A Randomized Controlled Trial.

Tai WC(1)(2), Yang SC(1), Yao CC(1), Wu CK(1), Liu AC(1), Lee CH(2)(3), Kuo 
YH(1)(2), Chuah SK(4)(5), Liang CM(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Division of Hepatogastroenterology, Kaohsiung Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, 
123, Ta-Pei Road, Niao-Sung Hsiang, Kaohsiung, 833, Taiwan.
(2)Chang Gung University College of Medicine, Taoyuan City, Taiwan.
(3)Division of Infectious Diseases, Kaohsiung Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, 
Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
(4)Division of Hepatogastroenterology, Kaohsiung Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, 
123, Ta-Pei Road, Niao-Sung Hsiang, Kaohsiung, 833, Taiwan. chuahsk@seed.net.tw.
(5)Chang Gung University College of Medicine, Taoyuan City, Taiwan. 
chuahsk@seed.net.tw.
(6)Division of Hepatogastroenterology, Kaohsiung Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, 
123, Ta-Pei Road, Niao-Sung Hsiang, Kaohsiung, 833, Taiwan. 
gimy54861439@gmail.com.
(7)Chang Gung University College of Medicine, Taoyuan City, Taiwan. 
gimy54861439@gmail.com.

INTRODUCTION: High-dose dual therapy (HDDT) can attain acceptable eradication 
rates provided that the optimal doses, timing and treatment duration are 
applied. The existing evidence still shows inconsistent reports (< 90%) on HDDT 
therapy except in some Asian countries. We aimed to assess and compare the 
efficacy of 14-day HDDT by comparing it to 14-day rabeprazole-containing hybrid 
therapy (HT) and to investigate the host and bacterial factors predicting the 
treatment outcomes of eradication therapies.
METHODS: In this open-label, randomized controlled trial, we recruited 243 naïve 
Helicobacter pylori-infected patients from September 1, 2018, to November 30, 
2021. They were randomly allocated (1:1) to the HDDT group (rabeprazole 20 mg 
and amoxicillin 750 mg q.i.d for 14 days, n = 122) and the HT group (rabeprazole 
20 mg and amoxicillin 1 g b.i.d. for 7 days, followed by rabeprazole 20 mg, 
amoxicillin 1 g, clarithromycin 500 mg and metronidazole 500 mg b.i.d. for 
7 days, n = 121). Twelve patients were absent during follow-up in the HDDT group 
and 4 in the HT group, resulting in 110 for the HDDT group and 117 for HT group 
in the per protocol (PP) study. The outcome was determined by urea breath tests 
8 weeks later.
RESULTS: The eradication rates for the HDDT and HT groups were 77.0% (95% 
confidence interval [CI]: 68.5% to 84.1%) and 94.2% (95% CI: 88.4% to 97.6%) 
(P < 0.001) in intention-to-treat analysis; 85.5% (95% CI: 77.5% to 91.5%) and 
97.4% [95% CI: 92.6% to 99.5%] (P = 0.001) in per protocol analysis. The adverse 
event rates were 7.3% in the HDDT group and 14.5% in the HT group (P = 0.081). 
The habit of coffee drinking was the dependent factor for eradication failure in 
the HDDT group (88.2% vs. 68.8%, P = 0.040), but had no influence in the HT 
group (97.9% versus 95.0%, P = 0.449) in the univariate analysis.
CONCLUSION: This study demonstrated that 14-day rabeprazole-containing HDDT did 
not achieve > 90% eradication rates for first-line H. pylori eradication as 
14-day rabeprazole-containing HT did. HDDT is a potentially beneficial 
combination, which involves only two drugs with mild adverse effects; more 
precise studies are urged to find answers regarding these failures. This 
clinical trial was registered retrospectively on 28 November, 2021, as 
ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT05152004.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s40121-023-00811-3
PMCID: PMC10229508
PMID: 37133673

Conflict of interest statement: The authors (Wei-Chen Tai, Shih-Cheng Yang, 
Chih-Chien Yao, Cheng-Kun Wu, An-Che Liu, Chen-Hsiang Lee, Yuan-Hung Kuo, 
Seng-Kee Chuah and Chih-Ming Liang) declare that the research was conducted in 
the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could be construed 
as a potential conflict of interest.


21. World J Gastroenterol. 2023 May 28;29(20):3133-3144. doi: 
10.3748/wjg.v29.i20.3133.

Safety and effectiveness of vonoprazan-based rescue therapy for Helicobacter 
pylori infection.

Yu J(1), Lv YM(1), Yang P(1), Jiang YZ(1), Qin XR(1), Wang XY(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, The Affiliated Changzhou No. 2 People's 
Hospital of Nanjing Medical University, Changzhou 213000, Jiangsu Province, 
China.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, The Affiliated Changzhou No. 2 People's 
Hospital of Nanjing Medical University, Changzhou 213000, Jiangsu Province, 
China. wxy20009@126.com.

BACKGROUND: Vonoprazan (VPZ)-based regimens are an effective first-line therapy 
for Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection. However, their value as a rescue 
therapy needs to be explored.
AIM: To assess a VPZ-based regimen as H. pylori rescue therapy.
METHODS: This prospective, single-center, clinical trial was conducted between 
January and August 2022. Patients with a history of H. pylori treatment failure 
were administered 20 mg VPZ twice daily, 750 mg amoxicillin 3 times daily, and 
250 mg Saccharomyces boulardii (S. boulardii) twice daily for 14 d (14-d VAS 
regimen). VPZ and S. boulardii were taken before meals, while amoxicillin was 
taken after meals. Within 3 d after the end of eradication therapy, all patients 
were asked to fill in a questionnaire to assess any adverse events they may have 
experienced. At least 4-6 wk after the end of eradication therapy, eradication 
success was assessed using a 13C-urea breath test, and factors associated with 
eradication success were explored.
RESULTS: Herein, 103 patients were assessed, and 68 patients were finally 
included. All included patients had 1-3 previous eradication failures. The 
overall eradication rates calculated using intention-to-treat and per-protocol 
analyses were 92.6% (63/68) and 92.3% (60/65), respectively. The eradication 
rate did not differ with the number of treatment failures (P = 0.433). The rates 
of clarithromycin, metronidazole, and levofloxacin resistance were 91.3% 
(21/23), 100.0% (23/23), and 60.9% (14/23), respectively. There were no cases of 
resistance to tetracycline, amoxicillin, or furazolidone. In 60.9% (14/23) 
patients, the H. pylori isolate was resistant to all 3 antibiotics 
(clarithromycin, metronidazole, and levofloxacin); however, eradication was 
achieved in 92.9% (13/14) patients. All patients showed metronidazole 
resistance, and had an eradication rate of 91.3% (21/23). The eradication rate 
was higher among patients without anxiety (96.8%) than among patients with 
anxiety (60.0%, P = 0.025). No severe adverse events occurred; most adverse 
events were mild and disappeared without intervention. Good compliance was seen 
in 95.6% (65/68) patients. Serological examination showed no significant changes 
in liver and kidney function.
CONCLUSION: VAS is a safe and effective rescue therapy, with an acceptable 
eradication rate (> 90%), regardless of the number of prior treatment failures. 
Anxiety may be associated with eradication failure.

©The Author(s) 2023. Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v29.i20.3133
PMCID: PMC10280792
PMID: 37346155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict-of-interest statement: The authors 
declare that they have no conflict of interest.


22. World J Gastroenterol. 2024 Mar 14;30(10):1280-1286. doi: 
10.3748/wjg.v30.i10.1280.

Vonoprazan-amoxicillin dual regimen with Saccharomyces boulardii as a rescue 
therapy for Helicobacter pylori: Current perspectives and implications.

Dirjayanto VJ(1), Audrey J(1), Simadibrata DM(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Universitas Indonesia, Jakarta Pusat 10430, DKI Jakarta, 
Indonesia.
(2)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, 
Minnesota 55905, United States.
(3)Nuffield Department of Population Health, University of Oxford, Oxford OX3 
7LF, United Kingdom. simadibrata.daniel@mayo.edu.

Yu et al's study in the World Journal of Gastroenterology (2023) introduced a 
novel regimen of Vonoprazan-amoxicillin dual therapy combined with Saccharomyces 
boulardii (S. boulardii) for the rescue therapy against Helicobacter pylori (H. 
pylori), a pathogen responsible for peptic ulcers and gastric cancer. Vonoprazan 
is a potassium-competitive acid blocker renowned for its rapid and long-lasting 
acid suppression, which is minimally affected by mealtime. Compared to proton 
pump inhibitors, which bind irreversibly to cysteine residues in the 
H+/K+-ATPase pump, Vonoprazan competes with the K+ ions, prevents the ions from 
binding to the pump and blocks acid secretion. Concerns with increasing 
antibiotic resistance, effects on the gut microbiota, patient compliance, and 
side effects have led to the advent of a dual regimen for H. pylori. Previous 
studies suggested that S. boulardii plays a role in stabilizing the gut barrier 
which improves H. pylori eradication rate. With an acceptable safety profile, 
the dual-adjunct regimen was effective regardless of prior treatment failure and 
antibiotic resistance profile, thereby strengthening the applicability in 
clinical settings. Nonetheless, S. boulardii comes in various formulations and 
dosages, warranting further exploration into the optimal dosage for 
supplementation in rescue therapy. Additionally, larger, randomized, 
double-blinded controlled trials are warranted to confirm these promising 
results.

©The Author(s) 2024. Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v30.i10.1280
PMCID: PMC11000074
PMID: 38596495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict-of-interest statement: All authors have 
no conflict of interest to disclose.


23. Gut. 2020 Jun;69(6):1019-1026. doi: 10.1136/gutjnl-2019-319954. Epub 2020 Jan 8.

Seven-day vonoprazan and low-dose amoxicillin dual therapy as first-line 
Helicobacter pylori treatment: a multicentre randomised trial in Japan.

Suzuki S(1)(2), Gotoda T(3), Kusano C(1), Ikehara H(1), Ichijima R(1), Ohyauchi 
M(4), Ito H(4), Kawamura M(5), Ogata Y(5), Ohtaka M(6), Nakahara M(7), Kawabe 
K(8).

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Medicine, Nihon 
University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, Yuri Kumiai General Hospital, Yurihonjo, 
Akita, Japan.
(3)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Medicine, Nihon 
University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan takujigotoda@yahoo.co.jp.
(4)Department of Gastroenterology, Osaki Citizen Hospital, Osaki, Miyagi, Japan.
(5)Department of Gastroenterology, Sendai City Hospital, Sendai, Miyagi, Japan.
(6)Yamanashi Koseiren Health Care Center, Kofu, Yamanashi, Japan.
(7)Department of Gastroenterology, Chichibu Municipal Hospital, Chichibu, 
Saitama, Japan.
(8)Department of Gastroenterology, Fukaya Red Cross Hospital, Fukaya, Saitama, 
Japan.

Comment in
    Gut. 2020 Nov;69(11):2056. doi: 10.1136/gutjnl-2020-320705.

OBJECTIVE: To date, no randomised trials have compared the efficacy of 
vonoprazan and amoxicillin dual therapy with other standard regimens for 
Helicobacter pylori treatment. This study aimed to investigate the efficacy of 
the 7-day vonoprazan and low-dose amoxicillin dual therapy as a first-line H. 
pylori treatment, and compared this with vonoprazan-based triple therapy.
DESIGN: This prospective, randomised clinical trial was performed at seven 
Japanese institutions. Patients with H. pylori-positive culture test and naive 
to treatment were randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to either VA-dual therapy 
(vonoprazan 20 mg+amoxicillin 750 mg twice/day) or VAC-triple therapy 
(vonoprazan 20 mg+amoxicillin 750 mg+clarithromycin 200 mg twice/day) for 7 
days, with stratification by age, sex, H. pylori antimicrobial resistance and 
institution. Eradication success was evaluated by 13C-urea breath test at least 
4 weeks after treatment.
RESULTS: Between October 2018 and June 2019, 629 subjects were screened and 335 
were randomised. The eradication rates of VA-dual and VAC-triple therapies were 
84.5% and 89.2% (p=0.203) by intention-to-treat analysis, respectively, and 
87.1% and 90.2% (p=0.372) by per-protocol analysis, respectively. VA-dual was 
non-inferior to VAC-triple in the per-protocol analysis. The eradication rates 
in strains resistant to clarithromycin for VA-dual were significantly higher 
than those for VAC-triple (92.3% vs 76.2%; p=0.048). The incidence of adverse 
events was equal between groups.
CONCLUSION: The 7-day vonoprazan and low-dose amoxicillin dual therapy provided 
acceptable H. pylori eradication rates and a similar effect to vonoprazan-based 
triple therapy in regions with high clarithromycin resistance.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: UMIN000034140.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2020. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/gutjnl-2019-319954
PMCID: PMC7282559
PMID: 31915235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: TG received honorarium from 
Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited, the manufacturer of study drugs.


24. Biomedicines. 2021 Aug 7;9(8):975. doi: 10.3390/biomedicines9080975.

Metronidazole- and Amoxicillin-Loaded PLGA and PCL Nanofibers as Potential Drug 
Delivery Systems for the Treatment of Periodontitis: In Vitro and In Vivo 
Evaluations.

Mirzaeei S(1)(2), Mansurian M(3), Asare-Addo K(4), Nokhodchi A(5).

Author information:
(1)Pharmaceutical Sciences Research Center, Health Institute, Kermanshah 
University of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah 6715847141, Iran.
(2)Nano Drug Delivery Research Center, Health Technology Institute, Kermanshah 
University of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah 6715847141, Iran.
(3)Student Research Committee, Kermanshah University of Medical Sciences, 
Kermanshah 6715847141, Iran.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, University of Huddersfield, Huddersfield HD1 3DH, UK.
(5)Pharmaceutics Research Laboratory, School of Life Sciences, University of 
Sussex, Brighton BN1 9RH, UK.

The purpose of this study was to prepare poly (D-L) lactide-co-glycolide (PLGA) 
and poly ε-caprolactone (PCL) nanofibers containing metronidazole and 
amoxicillin using an electrospinning process as intrapocket sustained-release 
drug delivery systems for the treatment of periodontal diseases. Scanning 
electron microscopy showed that the drug containing PLGA and PCL nanofibers 
produced from the electrospinning process was uniform and bead-free in 
morphology. The obtained nanofibers had a strong structure and resisted external 
tension according to the tensiometry results. The cytotoxicity results indicated 
acceptable cell viability (>80%). Quantification by high-performance liquid 
chromatography showed almost complete in vitro drug release between 7 and 9 
days, whereas 14 days were required for complete drug release in vivo. No 
significant signs of irritation or inflammatory reaction were detected after 
three weeks of subcutaneous implantation of nanofibers in the animal models, 
thus indicating suitable compatibility. The results therefore suggest that the 
designed nanofibers can be used as potential commercial formulations in the 
treatment of periodontitis as controlled-release intrapocket drug delivery 
systems that can increase patient compliance. This is due to their ability to 
reduce the frequency of administration from three times daily in a systemic 
manner to once weekly as local delivery.

DOI: 10.3390/biomedicines9080975
PMCID: PMC8395018
PMID: 34440179

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


25. Digestion. 2020;101(6):743-751. doi: 10.1159/000502287. Epub 2019 Aug 21.

Dual Therapy with Vonoprazan and Amoxicillin Is as Effective as Triple Therapy 
with Vonoprazan, Amoxicillin and Clarithromycin for Eradication of Helicobacter 
pylori.

Furuta T(1), Yamade M(2), Kagami T(2), Uotani T(2), Suzuki T(2), Higuchi T(2), 
Tani S(3), Hamaya Y(2), Iwaizumi M(4), Miyajima H(2), Umemura K(5)(6), Osawa 
S(3), Sugimoto K(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for Clinical Research, Hamamatsu University School of Medicine, 
Hamamatsu, Japan, furuta@hama-med.ac.jp.
(2)First Department of Medicine, Hamamatsu University School of Medicine, 
Hamamatsu, Japan.
(3)Department of Endoscopic and Photodynamic Medicine, Hamamatsu University 
School of Medicine, Hamamatsu, Japan.
(4)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Hamamatsu University School of Medicine, 
Hamamatsu, Japan.
(5)Center for Clinical Research, Hamamatsu University School of Medicine, 
Hamamatsu, Japan.
(6)Department of Pharmacology, Hamamatsu University School of Medicine, 
Hamamatsu, Japan.

BACKGROUNDS/AIMS: Vonoprazan (VPZ) is the first clinically available potassium 
competitive acid blocker. This class of agents provides faster and more potent 
acid inhibition than proton pump inhibitors. Most strains of Helicobacter pylori 
are sensitive to amoxicillin. We hypothesized that dual therapy with VPZ and 
amoxicillin would provide the sufficient eradication rate for H. pylori 
infection. To evaluate this, we compared the eradication rate by the dual 
VPZ/amoxicillin therapy with that by the standard triple 
VPZ/amoxicillin/clarithromycin therapy.
METHODS: Non-inferiority of the eradication rate of H. pylori by the dual 
therapy with VPZ 20 mg twice daily (bid) and amoxicillin 500 mg 3 times daily 
(tid) for 1 week to that by the triple therapy with VPZ 20 mg bid, amoxicillin 
750 mg bid and clarithromycin 200 mg bid for 1 week was retrospectively studied. 
Propensity score matching was performed to improve comparability between 2 
regimen groups. Successful eradication was diagnosed using the [13C]-urea breath 
test at 1-2 months after the end of eradication therapy.
RESULTS: The intention-to-treat analysis demonstrated that the eradication rate 
by the dual therapy (92.9%; 95% CI 82.7-98.0%, 52/56) was not inferior to that 
of the triple therapy (91.9%; 95% CI 80.4-97.0%, 51/56; OR 1.275, 95% CI 
0.324-5.017%, p = 0.728). There were no statistically significant differences in 
incidences of adverse events between 2 regimens.
CONCLUSION: VPZ-based dual therapy (VPZ 20 mg bid and amoxicillin 500 mg tid for 
1 week) provides an acceptable eradication rate of H. pylori infection without 
the need for second antimicrobial agents, such as clarithromycin.

© 2019 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000502287
PMID: 31434101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Microb Drug Resist. 2018 Sep;24(7):987-994. doi: 10.1089/mdr.2017.0360. Epub 
2018 Feb 28.

Is There an Association Between Use of Amoxicillin-Clavulanate and Resistance to 
Third-Generation Cephalosporins in Klebsiella pneumoniae and Escherichia coli at 
the Hospital Level?

Marquet A(1), Vibet MA(2), Caillon J(1)(3), Javaudin F(4)(5), Chapelet G(4), 
Montassier E(4)(5), Batard E(1)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)1 OMEDIT des Pays de la Loire , Nantes, France .
(2)2 Laboratoire de Mathématiques Jean Leray, Université de Nantes , Nantes, 
France .
(3)3 Bacteriology and Infection Control, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de 
Nantes , Nantes, France .
(4)4 Microbiotas Hosts Antibiotics and Bacterial Resistances (MiHAR) Lab, 
Institut de Recherche en Santé 2 , Université de Nantes, Nantes, France .
(5)5 Emergency Department, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de Nantes , Nantes, 
France .

AIMS: Amoxicillin-clavulanate is extensively used in European hospitals. Whether 
the hospital use of amoxicillin-clavulanate is associated with nonsusceptibility 
to third-generation cephalosporins (3GC) in Klebsiella pneumoniae is unknown. 
Our aim was to assess the relationship between the hospital use of 
amoxicillin-clavulanate and 3GC nonsusceptibility in K. pneumoniae and 
Escherichia coli.
METHODS: Yearly data of antibiotic use and 3GC nonsusceptibility in K. 
pneumoniae and E. coli were obtained from 33 French hospitals between 2011 and 
2016. Decreased susceptibility to 3GC and Extended-Spectrum Beta-Lactamase 
(ESBL) production were modelled from antibiotic use with linear mixed models on 
years 2011 to 2015, and validated on year 2016.
RESULTS: Nonsusceptibility to 3GC increased in K. pneumoniae and E. coli. In a 
multivariable model that included year and use of 3GC and fluoroquinolones as 
explanatory variables, amoxicillin-clavulanate use was protective against 3GC 
nonsusceptibility in K. pneumoniae (incidence rate ratio [IRR], 0.992 
[0.988-0.997]), and with ESBL production in K. pneumoniae (IRR, 0.989 
[0.985-0.992]). The correlation coefficient between observed and predicted 
numbers of 3GC-nonsusceptible K. pneumoniae in 2016 was 0.95 (95% confidence 
interval, 0.89-0.98). There was no significant association between 
amoxicillin-clavulanate use and 3GC nonsusceptibility in E. coli.
CONCLUSION: Amoxicillin-clavulanate hospital use was protective against 
nonsusceptibility to 3GC in K. pneumoniae. Conversely, it was not associated 
with susceptibility to 3GC in E. coli. To decrease the hospital use of 3GC and 
fluoroquinolones, and 3GC nonsusceptibility in K. pneumoniae, it may be 
acceptable to increase the hospital use of amoxicillin-clavulanate. 
Interventional studies are necessary to confirm this hypothesis.

DOI: 10.1089/mdr.2017.0360
PMID: 29489447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Medicine (Baltimore). 2023 Oct 13;102(41):e35610. doi: 
10.1097/MD.0000000000035610.

A randomized clinical study on the efficacy of vonoprazan combined with 
amoxicillin duo regimen for the eradication of Helicobacter pylori.

Yang F(1), Yu B(2), Qin L(3), Dai X(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Taixing Clinical College of Bengbu Medical 
College, Taixing, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Taixing Clinical College of Bengbu Medical College, 
Taixing, China.
(3)Department of Radiotherapy, Taixing Clinical College of Bengbu Medical 
College, Taixing, China.

BACKGROUND: Helicobacter pylori (H pylori) can cause gastritis, peptic ulcers, 
gastric cancer, and many other gastrointestinal diseases. The 14-day neo-dual 
therapy for H pylori is considered by most countries to have good eradication 
rates, while the 7- and 10-day studies have been more widely explored, however, 
we find that their results are different. The applicability of the shorter and 
less expensive 10-day neo-dual therapy to our country has not yet been 
confirmed.
METHODS: The patients were divided into 3 groups of 200 each by randomization 
method. Group A: patients received vonoprazan 20 mg, bid + amoxicillin(1 g), 
tid, for 14 days. Group B: vonoprazan (20 mg) bid + amoxicillin (1 g) tid, 
duration of treatment is 10 days, group C: rabeprazole (20 mg) bid + bismuth 
potassium citrate tablets/tinidazole tablets/clarithromycin tablets, combined 
package (4.2 g), bid, duration of treatment 14 days. The main comparisons were H 
pylori eradication rate, adverse drug reaction profile and cost-effect ratio in 
each group.
RESULTS: The eradication rates of groups A, B, and C were 92.5%, 91.6%, and 
80.1%, respectively. There was no significant difference in the eradication 
rates of groups A and B (P > .05), groups A and B had statistically 
significantly better eradication rates than group C (P < .05). The incidence of 
adverse reactions in groups A, B, and C was 9.5%, 8.5%, and 17.0%, respectively. 
There was no difference in the incidence of adverse reactions between A and B: 
(P > .05), The incidence of adverse reactions was statistically significantly 
lower in groups A and B than in group C (P < .05). Logistic regression analysis 
showed nonsmokers had a higher eradication rate (OR 2.587, 95% CI: 1.377-4.859, 
P = .003), and taller patients were more likely to have successful eradication 
(OR 1.052, 95% CI: 1.008-1.097, P = .020). Group B had the lowest cost-benefit 
analysis results.
CONCLUSION: Group B had an acceptable eradication rate, the lowest incidence of 
adverse effects, and the lowest cost analysis. Eradication is more likely to be 
successful in patients who do not smoke and in those who are taller.

Copyright © 2023 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000035610
PMCID: PMC10578669
PMID: 37832048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no funding and conflicts of 
interest to disclose.


28. Drug Healthc Patient Saf. 2021 Nov 30;13:241-249. doi: 10.2147/DHPS.S337791. 
eCollection 2021.

Regulatory Compliance and Associated Quality of Amoxicillin in Drug Retail 
Outlets of Southwestern Ethiopia.

Aman A(1), Hasen G(1)(2), Usman H(1), Suleman S(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Institute of Health, Jimma University, Jimma, Oromia, 
Ethiopia.
(2)Jimma University Laboratory Drug Quality (JuLaDQ), Jimma, Oromia, Ethiopia.

BACKGROUND: While the research findings confirm the existence of private drug 
retail outlets that do not comply with regulatory standards in many low-income 
countries, there are a lack of reports that evaluate the quality of medicines 
obtained from these firms. Therefore, the aim of this study was to evaluate the 
regulatory compliance of the retails and associated quality of amoxicillin in 
Southwestern Ethiopia.
METHODOLOGY: Forty-two drug retail outlets in Jimma town were evaluated using an 
inspection checklist developed by the Ethiopian regulatory authority, and 
dispensers from these retail outlets were interviewed using the pretested 
structured questionnaire. The drug outlets were coded and categorized into 
noncompliant and compliant drug retail outlets. The physicochemical quality of 
amoxicillin capsules obtained from these retail outlets were evaluated following 
methods described in the US Pharmacopoeia.
RESULTS: The present study revealed that about 54.76% drug retail outlets were 
compliant with the regulatory standard. Factors like income of retail outlet, 
experience of dispenser, and training regarding good storage practice were 
associated with status of regulatory compliance (p-value <0.05). The 
identification, dissolution, and assay results indicated that all amoxicillin 
samples obtained from both noncompliant and compliant drug retail outlets 
complied with pharmacopoeial specification limit. Besides, the independent 
unequal variance t-test revealed that there is no significant difference between 
mean dissolution and assay of API of the amoxicillin samples obtained these drug 
retail outlets (p-value >0.05).
CONCLUSION: The regulatory compliance of private drug retail outlets in Jimma 
town is not satisfactory. Moreover, the laboratory findings revealed that all 
samples of amoxicillin capsules compiled with pharmacopoeial specifications 
acceptance for packaging and labeling information, identification, assay, and 
dissolution. However, despite the fact that assays of the amoxicillin from 
retail outlets are within the required specification, the assays of amoxicillin 
obtained from noncompliant retail outlets appears to be slightly degraded, which 
may potentially demonstrate the impact of noncompliance of the drug retail 
outlets on the quality of medicines.

© 2021 Aman et al.

DOI: 10.2147/DHPS.S337791
PMCID: PMC8643136
PMID: 34876858

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest in 
this work.


29. Periodontol 2000. 2012 Oct;60(1):110-37. doi: 10.1111/j.1600-0757.2011.00429.x.

Low-cost periodontal therapy.

Slots J.

Periodontitis is a complex infectious disease that affects low-income 
individuals disproportionately. Periodontitis is associated with specific 
bacterial species and herpesviruses, and successful prevention and treatment of 
the disease is contingent upon effective control of these pathogens. This 
article presents an efficacious, highly safe, minimally invasive, practical and 
low-cost periodontal therapy that involves professional and patient-administered 
mechanical therapy and antimicrobial agents. The major components are scaling 
for calculus removal, periodontal pocket irrigation with potent antiseptics, and 
treatment with systemic antibiotics for advanced disease. Povidone-iodine and 
sodium hypochlorite have all the characteristics for becoming the first-choice 
antiseptics in the management of periodontal diseases. Both agents show 
excellent antibacterial and antiviral properties, are readily available 
throughout the world, have been safely used in periodontal therapy for decades, 
offer significant benefits for individuals with very limited financial 
resources, and are well accepted by most dental professionals and patients. Four 
per cent chlorhexidine applied with a toothbrush to the most posterior part to 
the tongue dorsum can markedly reduce or eliminate halitosis in most 
individuals. Systemic antibiotics are used to treat periodontopathic bacteria 
that are not readily reached by topical therapy, such as pathogens within 
gingival tissue, within furcation defects, at the base of periodontal pockets, 
and on the tongue, tonsils and buccal mucosae. Valuable antibiotic therapies are 
amoxicillin-metronidazole (250 mg of amoxicillin and 250 mg of metronidazole, 
three times daily for 8 days) for young and middle-aged patients, and 
ciprofloxacin-metronidazole (500 mg of each, twice daily for 8 days) for elderly 
patients and for patients in developing countries who frequently harbor enteric 
rods subgingivally. Scaling to remove dental calculus and the prudent use of 
inexpensive antimicrobial agents can significantly retard or arrest progressive 
periodontitis in the great majority of patients.

© 2012 John Wiley & Sons A/S.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0757.2011.00429.x
PMID: 22909110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Adv Biomed Res. 2014 Oct 20;3:209. doi: 10.4103/2277-9175.143252. eCollection 
2014.

Formulation, characterization and physicochemical evaluation of amoxicillin 
effervescent tablets.

Aslani A(1), Sharifian T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutics, School of Pharmacy and Novel Drug Delivery 
Systems Research Center, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Amoxicillin is a semisynthetic antibiotic, which is used as an 
antimicrobial drug. This study was designed to formulate amoxicillin 
effervescent tablets, aimed at improved patient compliance and increased drug 
stability.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this study, nine effervescent tablet formulations were 
prepared from amoxicillin trihydrate. The effervescent base was comprised of 
various amounts of citric acid and sodium bicarbonate. Powders and granules were 
evaluated for their particle size, bulk density, tapped density, compressibility 
index, Hausner's ratio and angle of repose. The effervescent tablets were then 
prepared from powders and granules of acceptable quality by direct compression 
and fusion methods. The tablets were evaluated for weight variation, friability, 
pH of solution, carbon dioxide (CO2) content, hardness, effervescence time, 
thickness, assay, content uniformity, water content and equilibrium moisture 
content.
RESULTS: The results indicated better flowability of granules prepared by fusion 
method as compared with the direct compression. The percent weight variations of 
tablets were within the acceptable limit of 0.5%. The friability was less than 
1% in all formulations. The solution pH of tablets prepared by direct 
compression and fusion methods ranged from 4.55 to 5.74 and 4.74-5.84, 
respectively. The CO2 amounts generated by of fusion method tablets were smaller 
as compared to the direct compression method. The hardness of tablets was 
40.66-56 for direct compression method and 60.6-74.6 for fusion method. The 
tablets produced by the fusion method had a larger thickness and lower water 
content than tablets produced by direct compression method.
CONCLUSION: Tablets prepared by the fusion method exhibited superior pre- and 
post-compression characteristics as compared to tablets prepared by direct 
compression method.

DOI: 10.4103/2277-9175.143252
PMCID: PMC4219208
PMID: 25371866

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


31. Br J Oral Maxillofac Surg. 2015 Nov;53(9):796-804. doi: 
10.1016/j.bjoms.2015.06.013. Epub 2015 Aug 25.

Risk of wound infection and safety profile of amoxicillin in healthy patients 
which required third molar surgery: a systematic review and meta-analysis.

Isiordia-Espinoza MA(1), Aragon-Martinez OH(2), Martínez-Morales JF(2), 
Zapata-Morales JR(3).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Farmacología, Facultad de Odontología, Universidad Autónoma 
de Baja California, Mexicali, Mexico. Electronic address: 
isiordia81@yahoo.com.mx.
(2)Departamento de Farmacología, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad Autónoma de 
San Luis Potosí, S.L.P., Mexico.
(3)Departamento de Farmacia, División de Ciencias Naturales y Exactas, 
Universidad de Guanajuato, Guanajuato, Mexico.

The aim of this systematic review and meta-analysis was to assess the risk of 
surgical wound infection and the adverse effects of amoxicillin in healthy 
patients who required excision of third molars. We identified eligible reports 
from searches of PubMed, Medline®, the Cochrane Library, Imbiomed, LILACS, and 
Google Scholar. Studies that met our minimum requirements were evaluated using 
inclusion and exclusion criteria and the Oxford Quality Scale. Those with a 
score of 3 or more on this Scale were included and their data were extracted and 
analysed. For evaluation of the risk of infection the absolute risk reduction, 
number needed to treat, and 95% CI were calculated. For evaluation of the risk 
of an adverse effect the absolute risk increase, number needed to harm, and 95% 
CI were calculated using the Risk Reduction Calculator. Each meta-analysis was 
made with the help of the Mantel-Haenszel random effects model, and estimates of 
risk (OR) and 95% CI were calculated using the Review Manager 5.3, from the 
Cochrane Library. A significant risk was assumed when the lower limit of the 95% 
CI was greater than 1. Probabilities of less than 0.05 were accepted as 
significant. The results showed that there was no reduction in the risk of 
infection when amoxicillin was given before or after operation compared with an 
untreated group or placebo. In conclusion, this study suggests that amoxicillin 
given prophylactically or postoperatively does not reduce the risk of infection 
in healthy patients having their third molars extracted.

Copyright © 2015 The British Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeons. 
Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bjoms.2015.06.013
PMID: 26316017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Heliyon. 2020 Apr 14;6(4):e03786. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2020.e03786. 
eCollection 2020 Apr.

Acceptability, adherence, and clinical outcomes, of amoxicillin dispersible 
tablets versus oral suspension in treatment of children aged 2-59 Months with 
pneumonia, Kenya: A cluster randomized controlled trial.

Angwa LM(1), Ouma C(2), Okoth P(3), Nyamai R(4), Kamau NG(5), Mutai K(6), Onono 
MA(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Medicine, Kabarak University, Kenya.
(2)Department of Biomedical Sciences and Technology, Maseno University, Kenya.
(3)UNICEF Kenya Country Office, Kenya.
(4)Ministry of Health, Kenya.
(5)Institute of Tropical Medicine, Jomo Kenyatta University, Kenya.
(6)National AIDS Control Council, Kenya.
(7)Centre for Microbiology, Kenya Medical Research Institute, Kenya.

Amoxicillin dispersible tablet (DT) is now recommended by the WHO as a 
first-line drug for the treatment of pneumonia in children below 5 years. The 
study aim was to compare acceptability, adherence and clinical outcome of 
amoxicillin DT and amoxicillin oral suspension (OS) in the treatment of children 
aged 2-59 months with pneumonia in Kenya. We conducted a two-arm cluster 
randomized controlled trial and utilized quantitative methods. The community 
unit was the unit of randomization. Children aged 2-59 months with pneumonia 
were enrolled and treated with either amoxicillin DT or OS. Acceptability was 
defined as the perception of taste of medication as the same or better compared 
to other medicines and expression of willingness of caregivers to use DT/OS in 
future, adherence was measured based on the dose, frequency, and duration of 
treatment, and clinical outcome as complete resolution of symptoms without 
change of antibiotic treatment. Equivalence was defined as a difference of ≤8% 
between study arms. We found high levels of acceptability among both DT (93.9%) 
and OS (96.1%) arms (difference 2.3%, 90% CI -2.6-7.3). The objective measure of 
adherence on day four and the overall objective measure were significantly 
higher among children on DT compared to children on OS (88.7% vs. 41.5% 
(difference 47.2%, 90% CI 31.0-63.3) & 83.5% vs. 39% (difference 44.5%, 90% CI 
27.9-60.9), respectively). Cure rates were high in both arms (DT (99.5%), OS 
(98.1%), difference 1.4%, 90% CI -0.2-3.2). There is reported better adherence 
to Amoxicillin DT compared to OS and equivalence in acceptability and clinical 
outcomes.

© 2020 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2020.e03786
PMCID: PMC7160563
PMID: 32322742


33. Neonatology. 2020;117(5):619-627. doi: 10.1159/000509751. Epub 2020 Aug 25.

Amoxicillin Dosing Regimens for the Treatment of Neonatal Sepsis: Balancing 
Efficacy and Neurotoxicity.

van Donge T(1), Fuchs A(2)(3), Leroux S(2), Pfister M(2), Rodieux F(4), Atkinson 
A(2), Giannoni E(5), van den Anker J(2)(6)(7), Bielicki J(3)(8).

Author information:
(1)Paediatric Pharmacology and Pharmacometrics Research, University Children's 
Hospital Basel, Basel, Switzerland, tamara.vandonge@ukbb.ch.
(2)Paediatric Pharmacology and Pharmacometrics Research, University Children's 
Hospital Basel, Basel, Switzerland.
(3)Medicines for Malaria Venture, Geneva, Switzerland.
(4)Division of Clinical Pharmacology and Toxicology, Department of 
Anaesthesiology, Pharmacology, Intensive care, and Emergency Medicine, Geneva 
University Hospitals, Geneva, Switzerland.
(5)Clinic of Neonatology, Department Mother-Woman-Child, Lausanne University 
Hospital and University of Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland.
(6)Intensive Care and Department of Surgery, Erasmus Medical Center-Sophia 
Children's Hospital, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(7)Division of Clinical Pharmacology, Children's National Hospital, Washington, 
District of Columbia, USA.
(8)Paediatric Infectious Diseases Research Group, Institute for Infection and 
Immunity, St George's, University of London, London, United Kingdom.

INTRODUCTION: Large variability in neonatal amoxicillin dosing recommendations 
may reflect uncertainty about appropriate efficacy and toxicity targets.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to model efficacious and safe exposure for 
current neonatal amoxicillin dosing regimens, given a range of assumptions for 
minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC), targeted %fT > MIC, and potential for 
aminopenicillin-related neurotoxicity.
METHODS: Individual intravenous amoxicillin exposures based on 6 international 
and 9 Swiss neonatal dosing recommendations, reflecting the range of current 
dosing approaches, were assessed by a previously developed population 
pharmacokinetic model informed by neonatal data from an international cohort. 
Exposure was simulated by attributing each dosing regimen to each patient 
cohort. End points of interest were %fT > MIC and potential neurotoxicity using 
Cmax > 140 mg/L as threshold.
RESULTS: None of the dosing regimens achieved targets of ≥100%fT > MIC at any of 
the relevant MICs for a desired probability of target attainment (PTA) of ≥90%. 
All regimens achieved a PTA ≥90% for Streptococcus agalactiae (MIC 0.25 mg/L) 
and Listeria monocytogenes (MIC 1 mg/L) when targeting ≤70%fT > MIC. In 
contrast, none of the regimens resulted in a PTA ≥90% targeting ≥70%fT > MIC for 
enterococci (MIC 4 mg/L). The maximum amoxicillin concentration associated with 
potential neurotoxicity was exceeded using 4 dosing regimens (100 mg/kg q12, 
60/30 mg/kg q12/8, 50 mg/kg q12/8/6, and 50 mg/kg q12/8/4) for ≥10% of neonates.
CONCLUSIONS: The acceptability of regimens is highly influenced by efficacy and 
toxicity targets, the selection of which is challenging. Novel randomized trial 
designs combined with pharmacometric modeling and simulation could assist in 
selecting optimal dosing regimens in this understudied population.

© 2020 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000509751
PMID: 32841941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Turk J Gastroenterol. 2011 Feb;22(1):1-5.

Furazolidone, amoxicillin and omeprazole with or without bismuth for eradication 
of Helicobacter pylori in peptic ulcer disease.

Ghadir MR(1), Shafaghi A, Iranikhah A, Pakdin A, Joukar F, Mansour-Ghanaei F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Qum University of Medical Sciences, Iran.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Furazolidone has been introduced as an effective drug against 
Helicobacter pylori infection in Iran, but intolerable side effects may limit 
its use. The aim of this study was to compare quadruple and triple 
furazolidone-based regimens to achieve an economically affordable regimen with 
acceptable success rate and fewer side effects.
METHODS: Patients with Helicobacter pylori positive peptic ulcer disease were 
randomly allocated into two groups: amoxicillin 1 g b.i.d., furazolidone 200 mg 
b.i.d. and omeprazole 20 mg b.i.d. with or without bismuth subcitrate 240 mg 
b.i.d. for two weeks (amoxicillin, furazolidone, omeprazole, bismuth and 
amoxicillin, furazolidone, omeprazole regimens, respectively). Helicobacter 
pylori eradication was confirmed by 13C-urea breath test 12 weeks after the end 
of therapy.
RESULTS: Eighty-six patients were enrolled, but 16 patients discontinued their 
therapy or follow-up. The eradication rates with amoxicillin, furazolidone, 
omeprazole, bismuth and amoxicillin, furazolidone, omeprazole were 85.3% and 
61.1% by per-protocol analysis, respectively (p=0.02) and 67.4% and 51.2% by 
intention-to-treat analysis, respectively (p<0.05). The most frequent adverse 
effects in the two study groups were weakness, nausea, anorexia, and dizziness, 
and no significant differences between the groups were shown.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on the results in this study, furazolidone-based triple 
therapy (without bismuth) is not recommended for Helicobacter pylori eradication 
because of the lower eradication rate and unchanged frequency of adverse 
effects. Thus, we recommend furazolidone, amoxicillin and omeprazole in 
combination with bismuth for treatment of Helicobacter pylori.

PMID: 21480103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Environ Pollut. 2018 May;236:562-569. doi: 10.1016/j.envpol.2018.01.100.

Simultaneous removal of amoxicillin, ampicillin and penicillin by clay supported 
Fe/Ni bimetallic nanoparticles.

Weng X(1), Cai W(1), Lan R(1), Sun Q(2), Chen Z(3).

Author information:
(1)Fujian Key Laboratory of Pollution Control and Resource Reuse, School of 
Environmental Science and Engineering, Fujian Normal University, Fuzhou 350007, 
Fujian Province, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Urban Environment and Health, Institute of Urban 
Environment, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Xiamen 361021, Fujian Province, China.
(3)Fujian Key Laboratory of Pollution Control and Resource Reuse, School of 
Environmental Science and Engineering, Fujian Normal University, Fuzhou 350007, 
Fujian Province, China. Electronic address: zlchen@fjnu.edu.cn.

This study examined functional bentonite-supported nanoscale Fe/Ni (B-Fe/Ni) for 
the simultaneous removal of β-lactam antibiotics such as amoxicillin (AMX), 
ampicillin (AMP) and penicillin (PEN). The results show only 94.6% of AMX, 80.6% 
of AMP and 53.7% of PEN were removed in the mixed antibiotic solution, while 
97.5% of AMX, 85.1% of AMP and 74.5% of PEN were removed in individual 
antibiotic solution. The decreased removal in a mixed antibiotic solution was 
attributed to competition between antibiotics for: firstly, active sites of iron 
oxide for the adsorption; and secondly, accepted electrons for the degradation 
in passivation of the nZVI surface. These were confirmed by various 
characterization techniques. Kinetics studies of mixed antibiotics using B-Fe/Ni 
confirmed that adsorption and degradation occurred simultaneously as removing of 
antibiotics in the presence of particles. Furthermore, the stability and 
durability of B-Fe/Ni applied to remove β-lactam antibiotics was demonstrated. 
Finally, B-Fe/Ni was used to reduce the concentration of mixed antibiotics from 
pharmaceutical wastewater, which indicated B-Fe/Ni is a promising material for 
antibiotics wastewater treatment.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envpol.2018.01.100
PMID: 29428710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Z Gastroenterol. 1992 Aug;30(8):543-52.

[Spontaneous bacterial peritonitis].

[Article in German]

Press AG(1), Meyer zum Büschenfelde KH, Ramadori G.

Author information:
(1)I. Medizinische Klinik und Poliklinik, Joh. Gutenberg-Universität, Mainz.

Patients with liver cirrhosis and ascites suffer from spontaneous bacterial 
peritonitis (SBP) in up to 25%. The typical clinical signs are abdominal pain 
with tenderness and fever. 30% have no signs of peritonitis. Then clinical 
worsening, encephalopathy, rising serum creatinine levels, and therapy resistant 
ascites may be the only clinical features. SBP must be differentiated from 
bacterascites and culture negative neutrocytic ascites by the polymorphonuclear 
neutrophil (PMN) count in the ascites and the presence of positive culture 
results, which has prognostic implications. Gram negative rods from the colon 
play an important etiological role in SBP. Gastrointestinal bleeding, lack of 
serum complement, a low ascites protein and the extent of intrahepatic shunts 
predispose to SBP. Then, prophylaxis with the comparable drugs neomycin and 
norfloxacin is indicated. Coexisting encephalopathy has to be treated by the 
therefore effective neomycin. Otherwise, norfloxacin is the drug of choice 
because of better acceptance and lower costs. Chemical parameters of the ascites 
(pH value less than 7.4; LDH and lactate greater than serum levels; glucose less 
than 50 mg%) help to assess the severity of peritonitis. The course of ascitic 
PMN under therapy and the time of persisting positive cultures can discriminate 
SBP from secondary peritonitis. Antibiotics of choice are amoxicillin-clavulanic 
acid and cefotaxime. Short course therapy (5 days) is a effective as long course 
therapy (10 days). Today SBP is no more life-threatening because diagnosis, 
prophylaxis and therapy have improved. However, complication rate of patients 
with liver cirrhosis and ascites has not changed.

PMID: 1413938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2011 Oct;23(10):865-70. doi: 
10.1097/MEG.0b013e3283496502.

A randomized trial of standard-dose versus half-dose rabeprazole, 
clarithromycin, and amoxicillin in the treatment of Helicobacter pylori 
infection.

Mansour NM(1), Hashash JG, El-Halabi M, Ghaith O, Maasri K, Sukkarieh I, Malli 
A, Sharara AI.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Internal Medicine, American 
University of Beirut Medical Center, Lebanon.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the efficacy and safety of a standard-dose versus 
half-dose 10-day triple regimen for the eradication of Helicobacter pylori 
infection.
METHODS: A total of 115 consecutive patients with documented infection were 
enrolled in this open-label trial. Group A (standard dose) received rabeprazole 
(20 mg), amoxicillin (1 g), and clarithromycin (500 mg), all twice daily for 10 
days. Group B (half dose) received rabeprazole (10 mg), amoxicillin (500 mg), 
and clarithromycin (250 mg), all twice daily for 10 days. (14)C urea breath 
tests were performed a minimum of 4 weeks after treatment and a minimum of 2 
weeks off any acid-suppressive therapy. Compliance and adverse effects were 
evaluated throughout the treatment period.
RESULTS: A total of 115 patients were enrolled (59 women and 56 men; mean age 
47.1±14.0 years). Eradication occurred in 45 of 58 patients [77.6%; 95% 
confidence interval (CI): 66.9-88.3%] in the standard-dose group versus 44 of 57 
in the half-dose group (77.2%; 95% CI: 66.3-88.1%) on an intent-to-treat (ITT) 
analysis (P=1.00). Per protocol eradication rates were 45 of 57 (78.9%; 95% CI: 
68.4-85.9%) and 44 of 54 (81.5%; 95% CI: 71.1-91.8%), respectively (P=0.81). The 
number of patients reporting any adverse effect was significantly higher in the 
standard-dose group (64.9 vs. 40.4%; P=0.014). The cost of treatment was 
significantly less in patients receiving the half-dose regimen (ITT analysis; 
P<0.05). The number needed to harm to suffer one additional failure in the 
half-dose over the standard-dose arm was 250 (ITT analysis).
CONCLUSION: A half-dose 10-day regimen of rabeprazole, amoxicillin, and 
clarithromycin is equally effective but cheaper and better tolerated than its 
standard-dose regimen in the treatment of Helicobacter pylori. Eradication rates 
of both regimens are, however, suboptimal compared with accepted standards.

DOI: 10.1097/MEG.0b013e3283496502
PMID: 21811161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Pak J Med Sci. 2022 Mar-Apr;38(4Part-II):965-969. doi: 10.12669/pjms.38.4.5436.

Comparison of Vonoprazan and Amoxicillin Dual Therapy with Standard Triple 
Therapy with Proton Pump Inhibitor for Helicobacter Pylori eradication: A 
Randomized Control Trial.

Zuberi BF(1), Ali FS(2), Rasheed T(3), Bader N(4), Hussain SM(5), Saleem A(6).

Author information:
(1)Bader Faiyaz Zuberi FCPS, Meritorious Professor, Department of 
Medicine/Gastroenterology, Dow Medical College, Dow University of Health 
Sciences, Karachi, Pakistan.
(2)Faiza Sadaqat Ali FCPS, Senior Registrar, Department of 
Medicine/Gastroenterology, Dow Medical College, Dow University of Health 
Sciences, Karachi, Pakistan.
(3)Tazeen Rasheed FCPS, Associate Professor, Department of 
Medicine/Gastroenterology, Dow Medical College, Dow University of Health 
Sciences, Karachi, Pakistan.
(4)Nimrah Bader MD, PGY-4 Geriatric Medicine Fellow, University of Miami/Jackson 
Health System, Miami, FL, USA.
(5)Sana Muhammad Hussain PG Trainee, Department of Medicine/Gastroenterology, 
Dow Medical College, Dow University of Health Sciences, Karachi, Pakistan.
(6)Anoshia Saleem FCSP (Gastro), Consultant, Dr Ruth KM Pfau Civil Hospital 
Karachi, Pakistan.

OBJECTIVES: To compare the efficacy of Vonoprazan based dual treatment versus 
PPI based treatment for the eradication of Helicobacter pylori infection.
METHODS: A randomized controlled trial was conducted in Department of 
Medicine/Gastroenterology Ruth KM Pfau Civil Hospital, DMC during the period of 
22 June to 21 September 2021. Sample size was calculated as 96 in each Group. 
All patients of age 18-75 years with Helicobacter Pylori Infection were inducted 
and randomly allocated to two groups. Group-A: were given Capsule Amoxicillin 1 
gm; Tablet Clarithromycin 500 mg; Capsule Omeprazole 20 mg all medications were 
given twice daily for two weeks. Group-B were given Capsule Amoxicillin 1 gm; 
Tablet Vonoprazan 20 mg (Vonozon©, m/s Getz Pharma, Pakistan) twice daily for 
two weeks. Confirmation of Hp eradication was done by stool Hp antigen test four 
weeks after completion of treatment. Nine and four patients were lost to 
follow-up in Group-A & B respectively. Analysis was conducted on 87 patients in 
Group-A and 92 patients in Group-B.
RESULTS: Out of eighty-seven patients in Group-A and ninety-two patients in 
Group-B, 73 (83.9%) patients in Group-A and 86 (93.5%) patients in Group-B had 
negative H pylori result respectively after treatment (p = .042). Significantly 
higher frequencies of adverse events were observed in Group-A as compared to 
Group-B in nausea/vomiting (p = .035) and bloating (p = .045).
CONCLUSION: VA-dual provides an acceptable eradication rate with fewer adverse 
events.

Copyright: © Pakistan Journal of Medical Sciences.

DOI: 10.12669/pjms.38.4.5436
PMCID: PMC9121978
PMID: 35634610

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: All authors state no 
disclosures for any financial conflict of interest.


39. Antibiotic Susceptibility and Resistance.

Mégraud F(1), Hazell S(2), Glupczynski Y(3).

In: Mobley HLT(4), Mendz GL(5), Hazell SL(6), editors. Helicobacter pylori: 
Physiology and Genetics. Washington (DC): ASM Press; 2001. Chapter 42.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Bactériologie, Hôpital Pellegrin, 33076, Bordeaux Cedex, 
France
(2)College of Science, Technology and Environment, University of Western Sydney, 
Campbelltown, Australia
(3)Laboratoire de Microbiologie, Clinique Universitaire de Mont-Godinne, Yvoir, 
Belgium
(4)University of Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland
(5)University of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia
(6)University of Southern Queensland, Toowoomba, Queensland

The realization that peptic ulcer disease was caused by an infectious agent has 
led to the still ongoing search for the most appropriate therapy. Many therapies 
have been tried, with the conclusion that multiple drug combinations are at 
present essential to the achievement of acceptable outcomes; cure of infection 
in >80% of patients is based on intention to treat. One class of drugs, which 
has been a constant from the early work of Marshall and Warren, is the 
5-nitroimidazoles, principally tinidazole and metronidazole (103), agents that 
had been used in the treatment of anaerobic bacterial and selected protozoan 
infections (133). Two other drugs were also used with success in the following 
years: a macrolide compound, clarithromycin, and a β-lactam compound, 
amoxicillin. The MACH-1 (94) and MACH-2 (110) studies provided data that the 
combination of a proton pump inhibitor together with clarithromycin and 
metronidazole or clarithromycin and amoxicillin represented the most effective 
drug combinations for the treatment of Helicobacter pylori infection. Yet these 
combinations are subject to failure due to resistance (4). While the mechanisms 
of macrolide resistance in H. pylori are well understood, the same cannot be 
said for resistance to 5-nitroimidazoles. Indeed, the issue of resistance to the 
5-nitroimidazoles is confused by apparent problems in relation to the accuracy 
and reproducibility of susceptibility testing, the definition of resistance, and 
the perceived clinical relevance of resistance. The issues relating to drug 
selection and antibiotic resistance as well as the prospect of using genomics 
for drug discovery will be reviewed in this chapter.

Copyright © 2001, ASM Press.

PMID: 21290757


40. Am J Hosp Pharm. 1979 Jul;36(7):893-906.

Drug therapy reviews: trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole.

Gleckman R, Alvarez S, Joubert DW.

The mechanism of action, antimicrobial spectrum, pharmacokinetic properties, 
drug interactions, adverse reactions and therapeutic uses of 
trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, a combination enzyme-specific inhibitor of 
bacterial folate synthesis, are reviewed. Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole 
currently is approved by the FDA for the therapy of established recurrent 
bacterial urinary tract infections, pneumocystosis, otitis media in children and 
shigellosis. Claimed advantages of the drug are synergistic activity, 
bactericidal activity and ability to decrease the rate of emergence of 
resistance to the individual components. Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole is the 
drug of choice for treatment of pneumocystosis and an acceptable oral therapy 
for recurrent urinary tract infections caused by susceptible bacteria. In 
children with otitis media, it is used as an alternative to ampicillin and 
amoxicillin and is preferred when these patients are penicillin-sensitive or 
when the infection is caused by beta-lactamase-producing Haemophilus influenzae. 
Hematologic reactions (anemia, thrombocytopenia, granulocytopenia, 
agranulocytosis) to trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole occur rarely. Gastrointestinal 
intolerance and skin eruptions are the most prevalent adverse reactions. Most 
untoward reactions to trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole develop within two weeks of 
onset of therapy, and their incidence compares favorably with that of standard 
agents administered for the same indications.

PMID: 382841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Curr Allergy Asthma Rep. 2019 Mar 22;19(5):27. doi: 10.1007/s11882-019-0854-6.

Evaluating Penicillin Allergies Without Skin Testing.

Banks TA(1), Tucker M(2), Macy E(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Allergy/Immunology, Naval Medical Center Portsmouth, Portsmouth, 
VA, USA.
(2)Department of Allergy and Immunology, Naval Branch Health Clinic, San Diego, 
CA, USA.
(3)Department of Allergy, Southern California Permanente Medical Group, Kaiser 
Permanente, 7060 Clairemont Mesa Blvd, San Diego, CA, 92111, USA. 
eric.m.macy@kp.org.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: An unconfirmed penicillin allergy is known to confer 
significant risk to patients. Only a small minority of patients labeled with 
penicillin allergy will be confirmed to be hypersensitive with the current 
reference standard test, an oral amoxicillin therapeutic dose challenge. Skin 
testing has been recommended prior to oral challenges to reduce the risk of 
severe acute challenge reactions. The rate of severe acute anaphylactic 
reactions with oral amoxicillin is currently extremely low. Unfortunately, 
penicillin skin testing, as commonly performed, has a high rate of false 
positive results.
RECENT FINDINGS: Encouraging skin testing in all individuals with an unconfirmed 
penicillin allergy, prior to a confirmatory oral challenge, would be technically 
difficult, make testing all individuals with an unconfirmed penicillin allergy 
very unlikely, and ultimately increase the risk to patients because of 
suboptimal antibiotic use. Most patients, who are appropriate candidates for a 
direct oral amoxicillin challenge, to confirm current penicillin tolerance, can 
be safely identified by their clinical histories. Higher risk individuals, those 
with a history of anaphylaxis or other acute onset potentially IgE-mediated 
reaction such as hives within 6 h of the first dose of the last course of a 
penicillin, may benefit from properly performed puncture and intradermal skin 
testing, using commercially available penicilloyl-polylysine, prior to an oral 
challenge, if skin test negative. Direct oral amoxicillin challenges in low-risk 
individuals are well accepted by patients and a safe and effective part of 
penicillin allergy delabeling.

DOI: 10.1007/s11882-019-0854-6
PMID: 30903298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Helicobacter. 2023 Apr;28(2):e12947. doi: 10.1111/hel.12947. Epub 2023 Jan 17.

A real-world exploratory study on the feasibility of vonoprazan and tetracycline 
dual therapy for the treatment of Helicobacter pylori infection in special 
populations with penicillin allergy or failed in previous amoxicillin-containing 
therapies.

Gao W(1), Xu Y(1), Liu J(1), Wang X(1), Dong X(1), Teng G(1), Liu B(1), Dong 
J(1), Ge C(1), Ye H(2), Zhang X(2), Cheng H(1).

Author information:
(1)GI Department, Peking University First Hospital, Beijing, China.
(2)TCM and Integrative Medicine Department, Peking University First Hospital, 
Beijing, China.

BACKGROUND: The treatment of Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection is a 
challenge for those who cannot use amoxicillin.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the eradication rate and adverse effects of vonoprazan 
and tetracycline dual therapy as first-line and rescue treatment regimens used 
in special populations with penicillin allergy or failed in previous 
amoxicillin-containing therapies.
DESIGN: Patients enrolled were those who were H. pylori-positive with selected 
conditions: (1) allergic to penicillin, either naïve to treatment or had failed 
before; or (2) failed in previous amoxicillin-containing therapies. All enrolled 
patients accepted 14-day vonoprazan and tetracycline dual therapy (VT dual 
therapy) as follows: vonoprazan (20 mg b.i.d.) and tetracycline (500 mg t.i.d. 
[body weight < 70 kg] or 500 mg q.i.d. [body weight ≥ 70 kg]). H. pylori status 
was evaluated by 13 C-urease breath test 6 weeks after treatment. All adverse 
effects were recorded. Some patients underwent bacterial culture and antibiotic 
susceptibility testing.
RESULTS: A total of 62 patients were enrolled; 18 of them received VT dual 
therapy as first-line treatment, 44 patients received VT dual therapy as rescue 
treatment. Overall, 58 of 62 patients achieved successful eradication (93.5%), 
while all involved (100%,18/18) succeeded in the first-line treatment group and 
40 cases (90.9%, 40/44) succeeded in the rescue treatment group. Sixty-one 
(61/62, 98.4%) patients completed the whole course of treatment. Adverse events 
occurred in 6 patients (6/62, 9.7%), while one patient quit because of skin 
rash. All adverse effects were mild and relieved spontaneously after H. pylori 
treatment. Five patients achieved successful H. pylori culture, and all strains 
isolated were sensitive to tetracycline.
CONCLUSIONS: For the treatment of H. pylori infection in special populations 
with penicillin allergy or failed in previous amoxicillin-containing therapies, 
a 14-day vonoprazan and tetracycline dual therapy was effective and safe as 
first-line and rescue treatment in our study. Further study is warranted to 
verify its efficacy, especially for those who cannot use amoxicillin.

© 2023 The Authors. Helicobacter published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/hel.12947
PMID: 36650673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Periodontol 2000. 2020 Jun;83(1):272-276. doi: 10.1111/prd.12325.

Primer on etiology and treatment of progressive/severe periodontitis: A systemic 
health perspective.

Slots J(1).

Author information:
(1)Ostrow School of Dentistry, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, 
CA, USA.

Periodontology is an infectious disease-based discipline. The etiopathology of 
progressive/severe periodontitis includes active herpesviruses, specific 
bacterial pathogens, and proinflammatory cytokines. Herpesviruses and 
periodontopathic bacteria may interact synergistically to produce periodontal 
breakdown, and periodontal herpesviruses may contribute to systemic diseases. 
The infectious agents of severe periodontitis reside in deep pockets, furcation 
lesions, and inflamed gingiva, sites inaccessible by conventional (purely 
mechanical) surgical or nonsurgical therapy but accessible by systemic 
antibiotic treatment. This brief overview presents an effective anti-infective 
treatment of severe periodontitis, which includes systemic 
chemotherapy/antibiotics against herpesviruses (valacyclovir [acyclovir]) and 
bacterial pathogens (amoxicillin + metronidazole or 
ciprofloxacin + metronidazole) plus common antiseptics (povidone-iodine and 
sodium hypochlorite) and select ultrasonic scaling. The proposed treatment can 
cause a marked reduction or elimination of major periodontal pathogens, is 
acceptably safe, and can be carried out in minimal time with minimal cost.

© 2020 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/prd.12325
PMID: 32385884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. PLoS One. 2018 Jun 11;13(6):e0197096. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0197096. 
eCollection 2018.

Efficacy and Tolerability of Two Quadruple Regimens: Bismuth, Omeprazole, 
Metronidazole with Amoxicillin or Tetracycline as First-Line Treatment for 
Eradication of Helicobacter Pylori in Patients with Duodenal Ulcer: A Randomized 
Clinical Trial.

Salmanroghani H(1), Mirvakili M(1), Baghbanian M(1), Salmanroghani R(1), Sanati 
G(2), Yazdian P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, ShahidSadoughi University of Medical 
Sciences, Yazd, Iran.
(2)Immunology Research Center, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.

AIM: To evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of tetracycline vs. high-dose 
amoxicillin in bismuth-based quadruple therapy for Helicobacter pylori(H. 
pylori) eradication.
METHODS: This randomized, open-label clinical trial included 228 patients with 
H.pylori infection and duodenal ulcer without a history of H.pylori treatment. 
Patients were randomly divided into two groups. The amoxicillin group received 
metronidazole 500mg, bismuth subcitrate 240mg, and amoxicillin 1000mg, all three 
times a day, plus omeprazole 20 mg twice a day, for 14 days. The tetracycline 
group received metronidazole 500mg three times a day; bismuth subcitrate240mg 
and tetracycline HCl 500mg, both four times a day; and omeprazole 20 mg twice a 
day, for 14 days. Evaluation for compliance and drug-relatedadverse effects were 
evaluated at the end of two weeks. Eight weeks after the end of treatment, the 
rate of H.pylori eradication was assessed by the C13urease breath test.
RESULTS: There were no significant demographic differences between the two 
groups. Eradication rate was higher with the amoxicillin-containing regimen than 
the tetracycline-containing regimen: 105/110 (95.51%; 95% confidence interval, 
91.5%-99.3%) vs. 88/105 (83.8%; 95%CI, 76.7%-90.8%) by per-protocol analysis (p 
= 0.005) and 92.9% (95%CI, 88.1%-97.6%) vs. 76.5% (95%CI, 68.7%-84.2%) by 
intention-to-treat analysis (ITT, p = 0.001). Adverse effects were significant 
higher in the tetracycline groupthan in the amoxicillin group (65.2% vs. 43.4%; 
p = 0.001).
CONCLUSION: Bismuth-based quadruple therapy including high-dose amoxicillin and 
metronidazole achieved an acceptable rate of H.pylori infection eradication with 
good tolerance in patients with duodenal ulcer. This regimen can overcome 
treatment resistance in areas with high prevalence of metronidazole and 
clarithromycin resistance.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: The Thai Clinical Trial Registry (TCTR) 20170623004.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0197096
PMCID: PMC5995362
PMID: 29889843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


45. Gut Liver. 2021 Jan 15;15(1):13-18. doi: 10.5009/gnl19308.

Helicobacter pylori Treatment Strategies in Singapore.

Ang TL(1), Ang D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Changi General Hospital, 
Singapore.

The management of Helicobacter pylori infection in Singapore remains a clinical 
challenge. Similar to other regions, there has been an increase in antibiotic 
resistance rates through the years. Nonetheless, over the past two decades, 
clarithromycin-based triple therapy has continued to be used as the first line 
treatment option, with an eradication rate exceeding 90%, although the accepted 
treatment duration must now be lengthened from 1 to 2 weeks to maintain 
efficacy. Concomitant and sequential therapies did not demonstrate superiority 
over standard triple therapy. Current empiric second line treatment utilizes 
either bismuth-based quadruple therapy or levofloxacin-based triple therapy, but 
outcomes remain less than ideal. Identifying options to further improve 
treatment success rates is challenging. Strategies being considered include the 
use of potent acid suppressants, such as vonoprazan, and H. pylori culture and 
antibiotic susceptibility testing-guided therapy.

DOI: 10.5009/gnl19308
PMCID: PMC7817935
PMID: 31875670 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST No potential conflict of 
interest relevant to this article was reported.


46. J Clin Rheumatol. 2021 Dec 1;27(8):e540-e546. doi: 10.1097/RHU.0000000000001513.

Stages of Lyme Arthritis.

Miller JB(1), Aucott JN.

Author information:
(1)From the Division of Rheumatology, Johns Hopkins University School of 
Medicine, Baltimore, MD.

BACKGROUND/HISTORICAL PERSPECTIVE: Lyme arthritis was described in 1977, after 
an apparent outbreak of juvenile idiopathic arthritis in Lyme, Connecticut. The 
evolution of the disease has been meticulously described with presentation 
dependent on disease duration and previous therapy.
SUMMARY INTEGRATING PUBLISHED LITERATURE: Erythema migrans is typically the 
first manifestation. Untreated patients often develop early disseminated 
disease, characterized by migratory polyarthralgia, potentially with cardiac 
and/or neurologic sequelae. If untreated, most patients develop late Lyme 
arthritis, characterized as a monoarthritis or oligoarthritis, typically 
involving the knees. Serologies are strongly positive at this stage; if 
positive, Lyme PCR from synovial fluid confirms the diagnosis. Doxycycline is 
recommended for late Lyme arthritis, although amoxicillin or ceftriaxone may be 
considered.Initial antibiotic therapy for late Lyme arthritis is insufficient 
for a subset of patients. However, serologies and synovial fluid PCR are not 
useful at determining whether infection persists after oral therapy. As such, 
ceftriaxone is recommended in patients with inadequate response to doxycycline 
or amoxicillin.Approximately 10% of patients have persistent arthritis despite 
antimicrobial therapy, termed postinfectious Lyme arthritis, which is thought to 
be related to prolonged inflammation and unique microbial and host interaction. 
Therapy at this stage relies on immunosuppression and/or synovectomy.
MAJOR CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE RESEARCH: Lyme arthritis provides unique insights 
into the complex interplay between microbes and host immunity. The progression 
from localized erythema migrans to early disseminated disease and late Lyme 
arthritis allows insight into arthritis initiation, and the study of 
postinfectious Lyme arthritis allows further insight into mechanisms of 
arthritis persistence.

Copyright © 2020 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/RHU.0000000000001513
PMID: 32815909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: There is no financial support or other benefits 
from commercial sources for the work reported on in the manuscript, or any other 
financial interests that any of the authors may have, which could create a 
potential conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with 
regard to the work. The authors meet the criteria for authorship and accept 
responsibility for the scientific content of the manuscript. All medications in 
this review are used off-label as there are no US Food and Drug 
Administration–approved therapies available for the management of Lyme disease.


47. Dig Dis Sci. 2023 May;68(5):1691-1697. doi: 10.1007/s10620-023-07886-5. Epub 
2023 Mar 1.

Why the Vonoprazan Helicobacter pylori Therapies in the US-European Trial 
Produced Unacceptable Cure Rates.

Graham DY(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Michael E. DeBakey Veterans Affairs Medical Center 
and Baylor College of Medicine Houston, 2002 Holcombe Blvd (111D), Houston, TX, 
77030, USA. dgraham@bcm.edu.

INTRODUCTION: Helicobacter pylori infects a large percentage of the world's 
population and is etiologically related to gastric cancer. The U.S. Food and 
Drug Administration recently approved two 14-day vonoprazan-containing regimens 
(vonoprazan-amoxicillin with or without clarithromycin) for H. pylori infections 
in the United States/Europe.
METHODS: We critically reviewed the trial methods to discover why the results 
were unacceptable low [i.e., no regimen achieved clinically acceptable (≥ 90%) 
or even conditionally acceptable cure rates (≥ 85%)]. Cure rates with antibiotic 
susceptible strains were 84.7 for vonoprazan triple therapy, 78.5 for 
vonoprazan-amoxicillin, and 78.7 for lansoprazole triple therapy, respectively. 
As was previously shown in Japan, the benefit from adding clarithromycin to 
vonoprazan-amoxicillin was minimal and the majority of the clarithromycin 
administered was unnecessary.
RESULTS: The possible reasons for failure to achieve high cure rates discussed 
include (a) reduced intragastric antibiotic concentrations, (b) an increase in 
heteroresistance, and (c) failure to achieve an intragastric pH conducive for 
amoxicillin to eradicate the infection. In addition, there was no pilot study or 
other attempt to optimize any regimen.
CONCLUSION: The most likely reason for failure was failure to achieve high 
intragastric concentrations of antibiotics or to achieve an intragastric pH 
conducive for amoxicillin to be active. Importantly, vonoprazan triple therapy 
resulted in > 10 tons of unneeded clarithromycin/million courses of vonoprazan 
triple therapy. Antibiotic misuse combined with low cure rates suggest that 
vonoprazan-clarithromycin triple therapies should not be prescribed for H. 
pylori infection. Dual vonoprazan-amoxicillin therapy has proven effective 
elsewhere and after optimization may eventually prove useful in the U.S./Europe.

© 2023. This is a U.S. Government work and not under copyright protection in the 
US; foreign copyright protection may apply.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-023-07886-5
PMID: 36856926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Br Dent J. 2009 Apr 11;206(7):357-62. doi: 10.1038/sj.bdj.2009.257.

The role of phenoxymethylpenicillin, amoxicillin, metronidazole and clindamycin 
in the management of acute dentoalveolar abscesses--a review.

Ellison SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Medicine and Primary Care, Bristol Dental Hospital, Lower 
Maudlin Street, Bristol. sarah.ellison@uhbristol.nhs.uk

Antibiotics are the most widely prescribed category of drugs issued on 
prescription by general dental practitioners. Despite this there remains little 
evidence-based literature on what should be prescribed for any given clinical 
situation, at what dosage and for how long. Given the current climate of 
evidence-based research, the need to keep antibiotic prescribing to an 
acceptable minimum, increasing levels of resistance of micro-organisms and 
widespread hospital infections with 'superbugs', there is a distinct need for 
appropriate prescribing guidelines. Considering best practice, an extensive 
review of the literature and a thorough understanding of current empirical 
treatment regimes, an attempt has been made to recommend suitable antibiotic 
prescribing for the adult patient suffering from acute dentoalveolar infections 
based on evidence.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bdj.2009.257
PMID: 19357666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Helicobacter. 2000;5 Suppl 1:S17-21; discussion S27-31. doi: 
10.1046/j.1523-5378.2000.0050s1017.x.

Where are We with current therapy?

Sung JJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Prince of Wales Hospital, 
Shatin, New Territories, Hong Kong, People's Republic of China.

Despite intensive research and widely publicized recommendations from consensus 
meetings in different continents, the public and primary care physicians are 
relatively slow in picking up the impact of Helicobacter pylori infection and 
identifying optimal therapies. The treatment of H. pylori infection has evolved 
from bismuth-containing regimens, 2-week proton pump inhibitor (PPI)-dual 
therapies, and now, the widely accepted PPI/ranitidine bismuth citrate (RBC) 
single week triple therapies. There is a wealth of evidence showing that these 
regimens are highly efficacious and well tolerated by patients. The MACH-2 
studies have confirmed that the addition of a PPI to two antimicrobials has 
significantly improved the cure rate of H. pylori infection and reduced the 
impact of antimicrobial resistance. Attempts to use shorter regimens ranging 
from 1 to 3 days should be resisted because of their unacceptably low 
therapeutic efficacy. In the United States, there are some indications that 
10-14 days of treatment may be required. While the first-line therapies for H. 
pylori infection is well established, we are still struggling with the choice of 
optimal regimen in retreatment after the first attempt fails. Quadruple therapy 
combining PPI with bismuth, metronidazole and tetracycline has achieved a 
respectable success of around 85%. Switching between metronidazole and 
clarithromycin seems to be a sensible strategy as these two are the most 
effective anti-Helicobacter agents. Changing between PPI and RBC in the triple 
therapy would not make much difference without replacing some of the 
antimicrobials. Rifabutin-containing regimens and high-dose PPI-amoxicillin dual 
therapy deserve more studies with large-scale studies. Data on anti-Helicobacter 
therapy for children are few. Most studies based on bismuth derivatives in 
combination with amoxicillin or tinidazole and were limited by the small number 
of cases. Recent studies showed 1-week bismuth-based triple therapy and 2-week 
PPI-based triple therapy are highly efficacious. Reinfection in children > 5 
years of age after successful cure is rare. It is worthwhile to refine the 
optimal therapy for children as the treatment of this group would, 
theoretically, prevent the development gastric cancer in the long term.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1523-5378.2000.0050s1017.x
PMID: 10828750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Curr Allergy Asthma Rep. 2014 Nov;14(11):476. doi: 10.1007/s11882-014-0476-y.

Penicillin and beta-lactam allergy: epidemiology and diagnosis.

Macy E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Allergy, Southern California Permanente Medical Group, 7060 
Clairemont Mesa Blvd., San Diego, 92111, CA, USA, eric.m.macy@kp.org.

Penicillin is the most common beta-lactam antibiotic allergy and the most common 
drug class allergy, reported in about 8% of individuals using health care in the 
USA. Only about 1% of individuals using health care in the USA have a 
cephalosporin allergy noted in their medical record, and other specific 
non-penicillin, non-cephalosporin beta-lactam allergies are even rarer. Most 
reported penicillin allergy is not associated with clinically significant 
IgE-mediated reactions after penicillin rechallenge. Un-verified penicillin 
allergy is a significant and growing public health problem. Clinically 
significant IgE-mediated penicillin allergy can be safely confirmed or refuted 
using skin testing with penicilloyl-poly-lysine and native penicillin G and, if 
skin test is negative, an oral amoxicillin challenge. Acute tolerance of an oral 
therapeutic dose of a penicillin class antibiotic is the current gold standard 
test for a lack of clinically significant IgE-mediated penicillin allergy. 
Cephalosporins and other non-penicillin beta-lactams are widely, safely, and 
appropriately used in individuals, even with confirmed penicillin allergy. There 
is little, if any, clinically significant immunologic cross-reactivity between 
penicillins and other beta-lactams. Routine cephalosporin skin testing should be 
restricted to research settings. It is rarely needed clinically to safely manage 
patients and has unclear predictive value at this time. The use of alternative 
cephalosporins, with different side chains, is acceptable in the setting of a 
specific cephalosporin allergy. Carbapenems and monobactams are also safely used 
in individuals with confirmed penicillin allergy. A certain predictable, but 
low, rate of adverse reactions will occur with all beta-lactam antibiotic use 
both pre- and post-beta-lactam allergy evaluations.

DOI: 10.1007/s11882-014-0476-y
PMID: 25216741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2016 Dec;39(10):697-721. doi: 
10.1016/j.gastrohep.2016.05.003. Epub 2016 Jun 21.

IV Spanish Consensus Conference on Helicobacter pylori infection treatment.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Gisbert JP(1), Molina-Infante J(2), Amador J(3), Bermejo F(4), Bujanda L(5), 
Calvet X(6), Castro-Fernández M(7), Cuadrado-Lavín A(8), Elizalde JI(9), Gene 
E(10), Gomollón F(11), Lanas Á(11), Martín de Argila C(12), Mearin F(13), 
Montoro M(14), Pérez-Aisa Á(15), Pérez-Trallero E(16), McNicholl AG(17).

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Aparato Digestivo, Hospital Universitario de La Princesa, 
Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria Princesa (IIS-IP), Centro de Investigación 
Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades Hepáticas y Digestivas (CIBEREHD), Madrid, 
España. Electronic address: javier.p.gisbert@gmail.com.
(2)Servicio de Aparato Digestivo, Hospital San Pedro de Alcántara, Cáceres, 
España.
(3)Medicina de Familia, Centro de Salud Los Ángeles, Madrid, España.
(4)Servicio de Aparato Digestivo, Hospital Universitario de Fuenlabrada, 
Fuenlabrada, Madrid, España.
(5)Servicio de Digestivo, Hospital Donostia/Instituto Biodonostia, Universidad 
del País Vasco UPV/EHU, CIBEREHD, San Sebastián, España.
(6)Servicio de Aparato Digestivo, Hospital Parc Taulí, Universitat Autónoma de 
Barcelona, CIBEREHD, Sabadell, Barcelona, España.
(7)Servicio de Aparato Digestivo, Hospital Universitario de Valme, CIBEREHD, 
Sevilla, España.
(8)Servicio Aparato Digestivo, Hospital Universitario Marqués de Valdecilla, 
Santander.
(9)Servicio de Aparato Digestivo, Hospital Clínic, CIBEREHD, Barcelona, España.
(10)Servicio de Urgencias, Hospital Parc Taulí Sabadell, CIBEREHD, Universitat 
Internacional de Catalunya, Sabadell, Barcelona, España.
(11)Servicio de Aparato Digestivo, Hospital Clínico Universitario de Zaragoza, 
IIS Aragón, CIBEREHD, Zaragoza, España.
(12)Servicio de Aparato Digestivo, Hospital Universitario Ramón y Cajal, 
Universidad de Alcalá, Madrid, España.
(13)Servicio de Aparato Digestivo, Centro Médico Teknon, Barcelona, España.
(14)Servicio de Aparato Digestivo, Hospital San Jorge, Huesca, España.
(15)Servicio de Aparato Digestivo, Agencia Sanitaria Costa del Sol, Marbella, 
Málaga, España.
(16)Servicio de Microbiología, Hospital Donostia/Instituto Biodonostia, 
Universidad del País Vasco UPV/EHU, CIBEREHD, San Sebastián, España.
(17)Servicio de Aparato Digestivo, Hospital Universitario de La Princesa, 
Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria Princesa (IIS-IP), Centro de Investigación 
Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades Hepáticas y Digestivas (CIBEREHD), Madrid, 
España.

Erratum in
    Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2017 May;40(5):378. doi: 
10.1016/j.gastrohep.2017.02.004.

Helicobacter pylori approximately infect 50% of Spanish population and causes 
chronic gastritis, peptic ulcer and gastric cancer. Until now, three consensus 
meetings on H.pylori infection had been performed in Spain (the last in 2012). 
The changes in the treatment schemes, and the increasing available evidence, 
have justified organizing the IVSpanish Consensus Conference (March 2016), 
focused on the treatment of this infection. Nineteen experts participated, who 
performed a systematic review of the scientific evidence and developed a series 
of recommendation that were subjected to an anonymous Delphi process of 
iterative voting. Scientific evidence and the strength of the recommendation 
were classified using GRADE guidelines. As starting point, this consensus 
increased the minimum acceptable efficacy of recommended treatments that should 
reach, or preferably surpass, the 90% cure rate when prescribed empirically. 
Therefore, only quadruple therapies (with or without bismuth), and generally 
lasting 14 days, are recommended both for first and second line treatments. 
Non-bismuth quadruple concomitant regimen, including a proton pump inhibitor, 
clarithromycin, amoxicillin and metronidazole, is recommended as first line. In 
the present consensus, other first line alternatives and rescue treatments are 
also reviewed and recommended.

Copyright Â© 2016 Elsevier España, S.L.U., AEEH y AEG. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gastrohep.2016.05.003
PMID: 27342080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. J Small Anim Pract. 2023 Oct;64(10):626-634. doi: 10.1111/jsap.13648. Epub 2023 
Jun 21.

Quality of amoxicillin/clavulanic acid oral formulations for intended veterinary 
use in the UK, Malaysia, Serbia and Thailand.

Pelligand L(1), Baker D(2), Sivagurunathan A(3), Kovačević Z(4), Suemanotham 
N(5), Stair JL(2), Scott M(2), Liu F(2), Page SW(6), Guardabassi L(7), Steagall 
PV(8)(9); Therapeutic Guidelines Group of the World Small Animal Veterinary 
Association.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Services and Sciences and Department of Comparative 
Biomedical Sciences, Royal Veterinary College, Hatfield, UK.
(2)Department of Clinical, Pharmaceutical & Biological Sciences, School of Life 
and Medical Sciences, University of Hertfordshire, Hatfield, UK.
(3)Animal Medical Centre, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(4)Department for Veterinary Medicine, Faculty of Agriculture, University of 
Novi Sad, Novi Sad, Serbia.
(5)Department of Pathology, Faculty of Veterinary Science, Chulalongkorn 
University, Bangkok, Thailand.
(6)Veterinary Clinical Pharmacology and Toxicology, Advanced Veterinary 
Therapeutics, Newtown, NSW, 2042, Australia.
(7)Department of Veterinary and Animal Sciences, Faculty of Health and Medical 
Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Frederiksberg, Denmark.
(8)Department of Clinical Sciences, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Université 
de Montréal, Saint-Hyacinthe, QC, J2S 2M2, Canada.
(9)Department of Veterinary Clinical Sciences, Centre for Animal Health and 
Welfare, Jockey Club College of Veterinary Medicine and Life Sciences, City 
University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.

OBJECTIVES: Amoxicillin/clavulanate is the most commonly used oral antimicrobial 
drug in companion animals. The objective of the study was to detect types and 
frequency of deficits in the quality of veterinary oral formulations of 
amoxicillin/clavulanate in various countries.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In a prospective study with purposive sampling, 
amoxicillin/clavulanate tablet formulations for canine use were collected in 
four countries (wholesalers or veterinary practice) and shipped to a central 
bioanalytical laboratory. Twenty-four samples were collected from the UK (nine), 
Malaysia (nine), Serbia (four) and Thailand (two), yielding 18 different 
formulations (10 veterinary). Packaging inspection, tablet disintegration and 
content assay were conducted (validated high-performance liquid chromatography 
with ultra-violet detection); content was acceptable when within the 90% to 120% 
pre-specified range (US Pharmacopeia).
RESULTS: Secondary packaging was present for 13 of 24 samples and primary 
packaging integrity was verified for all but one sample. Amoxicillin 
trihydrate/potassium clavulanate label ratio was 4:1, except for three 
formulations (2:1). Tablet dose strength ranged from 250 to 625 mg. All 
formulations contained both analytes. For amoxicillin, two of 24 samples were 
out of specification with 72.8% (Malaysia) and 82.3% (Thailand) of labelled 
content. For clavulanate, four of 24 samples were out of specification with 
46.9% (Serbia), 79.0% (UK), 84.3% (Serbia) and 86.5% (Thailand) of labelled 
content. One formulation (Thailand) failed for both analytes.
CLINICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Antimicrobial formulations of substandard quality have 
negative consequences for efficacy in patients and potentially promote 
antimicrobial resistance. There was evidence of substandard formulations in all 
countries, not only for amoxicillin but especially for clavulanate; this could 
compromise equitable access to acceptable quality essential veterinary medicines 
worldwide.

© 2023 The Authors. Journal of Small Animal Practice published by John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd on behalf of British Small Animal Veterinary Association.

DOI: 10.1111/jsap.13648
PMID: 37340896 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. World J Gastroenterol. 2005 Apr 28;11(16):2477-81. doi: 
10.3748/wjg.v11.i16.2477.

Efficacy of omeprazole and amoxicillin with either clarithromycin or 
metronidazole on eradication of Helicobacter pylori in Chinese peptic ulcer 
patients.

Sun WH(1), Ou XL, Cao DZ, Yu Q, Yu T, Hu JM, Zhu F, Sun YL, Fu XL, Su H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical 
University, Nanjing 210009, Jiangsu Province, China.

AIM: One-week triple therapy with proton pump inhibitors, clarithromycin and 
amoxicillin has recently been proposed as the first-line treatment for 
Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection; however, data regarding the effects 
of this regimen in China are scarce. The aim of this prospective and randomized 
study was to compare the efficacy of clarithromycin and metronidazole when they 
were combined with omeprazole and amoxicillin on eradication of H. pylori and 
ulcer healing in Chinese peptic ulcer patients.
METHODS: A total of 103 subjects with H. pylori-positive peptic ulcer were 
randomly divided into two groups, and accepted triple therapy with omeprazole 20 
mg, amoxicillin 1000 mg and either clarithromycin 500 mg (OAC group, n = 58) or 
metronidazole 400 mg (OAM group, n = 45). All drugs were given twice daily for 7 
d. Patients with active peptic ulcer were treated with omeprazole 20 mg daily 
for 2-4 wk after anti-H. pylori therapy. Six to eight weeks after omeprazole 
therapy, all patients underwent endoscopies and four biopsies (two from the 
antrum and two others from the corpus of stomach) were taken for rapid urease 
test and histological analysis (with modified Giemsa staining) to examine H. 
pylori. Successful eradication was defined as negative results from both 
examination methods.
RESULTS: One hundred patients completed the entire course of therapy and 
returned for follow-up. The eradication rate of H. pylori for the per-protocol 
analysis was 89.3% (50/56) in OAC group and 84.1% (37/44) in OAM group. Based on 
the intention-to-treat analysis, the eradication rate of H. pylori was 86.2% 
(50/58) in OAC group and 82.2% (37/45) in OAM group. There were no significant 
differences in eradication rates between the two groups on either analysis. The 
active ulcer-healing rate was 96.7% (29/30) in OAC group and 100% (21/21) in OAM 
group (per-protocol analysis, P>0.05). Six patients in OAC group (10.3%) and 
five in OAM group (11.1%) reported adverse events (P>0.05).
CONCLUSION: One-week triple therapy with omeprazole and amoxicillin in 
combination with either clarithromycin or metronidazole is effective for the 
eradication of H. pylori. The therapeutic regimen comprising metronidazole with 
low cost, good compliance and mild adverse events may offer a good choice for 
the treatment of peptic ulcers associated with H. pylori infection in China.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v11.i16.2477
PMCID: PMC4305638
PMID: 15832421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Sci Pharm. 2017 Feb 16;85(1):6. doi: 10.3390/scipharm85010006.

A Validated Stability-Indicating HPLC Method for Simultaneous Determination of 
Amoxicillin and Enrofloxacin Combination in an Injectable Suspension.

Batrawi N(1), Wahdan S(2), Al-Rimawi F(3).

Author information:
(1)The Advanced Veterinary Company, Ramallah,99765, Palestine. nidbat@yahoo.com.
(2)The Advanced Veterinary Company, Ramallah,99765, Palestine. 
sh_wahdan@yahoo.com.
(3)Department of Chemistry and Chemical Technology, Faculty of Science and 
Technology, Al-Quds University, Jerusalem 20002, Palestine. 
falrimawi@science.alquds.edu.

The combination of amoxicillin and enrofloxacin is a well-known mixture of 
veterinary drugs; it is used for the treatment of Gram-positive and 
Gram-negative bacteria. In the scientific literature, there is no 
high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC)-UV method for the simultaneous 
determination of this combination. The objective of this work is to develop and 
validate an HPLC method for the determination of this combination. In this 
regard, a new, simple and efficient reversed-phase HPLC method for simultaneous 
qualitative and quantitative determination of amoxicillin and enrofloxacin, in 
an injectable preparation with a mixture of inactive excipients, has been 
developed and validated. The HPLC separation method was performed using a 
reversed-phase (RP)-C18e (250 mm × 4.0 mm, 5 μm) column at room temperature, 
with a gradient mobile phase of acetonitrile and phosphate buffer containing 
methanol at pH 5.0, a flow rate of 0.8 mL/min and ultraviolet detection at 267 
nm. This method was validated in accordance with the Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA) and the International Conference on Harmonisation (ICH) 
guidelines and showed excellent linearity, accuracy, precision, specificity, 
robustness, ruggedness, and system suitability results within the acceptance 
criteria. A stability-indicating study was also carried out and indicated that 
this method can also be used for purity and degradation evaluation of these 
formulations.

DOI: 10.3390/scipharm85010006
PMCID: PMC5387366
PMID: 28212319

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
founding sponsors had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, 
analyses, or interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, and in 
the decision to publish the results.


55. Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2017 Dec;40(10):658-662. doi: 
10.1016/j.gastrohep.2017.05.017. Epub 2017 Aug 3.

Efficacy and safety of rifaximin associated with standard triple therapy 
(omeprazole, clarithromycin and amoxicillin) for H. pylori eradication: A phase 
IV pilot clinical trial.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Ramas M(1), Donday MG(1), McNicholl AG(1), Gisbert JP(2).

Author information:
(1)Servicio Aparato Digestivo, Hospital Universitario de La Princesa and 
Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria Princesa (IIS-IP), Madrid, Spain; 
Universidad Autónoma de Madrid and Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de 
Enfermedades Hepáticas y Digestivas (CIBERehd), Spain.
(2)Servicio Aparato Digestivo, Hospital Universitario de La Princesa and 
Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria Princesa (IIS-IP), Madrid, Spain; 
Universidad Autónoma de Madrid and Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de 
Enfermedades Hepáticas y Digestivas (CIBERehd), Spain. Electronic address: 
javier.p.gisbert@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: A progressive decrease in Helicobacter pylori eradication rates has 
been described over the years, driving the need for new antibiotic treatments.
AIM: To evaluate the efficacy and safety of the addition of rifaximin 
(Spiraxin®) to standard triple therapy (omeprazole, amoxicillin and 
clarithromycin) for the eradication of H. pylori.
METHODS: Independent prospective clinical trial (EUDRACT no.: 2013-001080-23). 
Forty consecutive adult patients were included with H. pylori infection, 
dyspeptic symptoms and naive to eradication treatment. A full blood test was 
performed in the first five patients enrolled to evaluate the safety of the 
treatment. H. pylori eradication was confirmed with the 13C-urea breath test at 
least four weeks after the end of treatment with rifaximin 400mg/8h, 
clarithromycin 500mg/12h, amoxicillin 1g/12h and omeprazole 20mg/12h for 10 
days.
RESULTS: Forty patients were consecutively enrolled, 53% woman, mean age 44 
years. Indication for eradication: 60% non-investigated dyspepsia, 38% 
functional dyspepsia and 2% gastric ulcer. Four patients did not attend the 
eradication confirmatory breath test. The eradication rate was 61% (95% CI: 
45-77%) for the protocol and 55% (40-70%) for intention-to-treat. About 76% of 
the patients experienced adverse events (35% diarrhea, 14% nausea and 24% 
metallic taste), none of which was serious. The blood tests did not show 
significant alterations.
CONCLUSION: Acceptable H. pylori eradication rates are not achieved with 
rifaximin associated with standard triple therapy for 10 days.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier España, S.L.U., AEEH y AEG. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gastrohep.2017.05.017
PMID: 28780968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. World J Gastroenterol. 2019 Apr 28;25(16):1907-1912. doi: 
10.3748/wjg.v25.i16.1907.

Development of Helicobacter pylori treatment: How do we manage antimicrobial 
resistance?

Suzuki S(1), Esaki M(2), Kusano C(2), Ikehara H(2), Gotoda T(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Medicine, Nihon 
University School of Medicine, Tokyo 1018309, Japan. suzuki.sho@nihon-u.ac.jp.
(2)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Medicine, Nihon 
University School of Medicine, Tokyo 1018309, Japan.

Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) antimicrobial resistance is an urgent, global 
issue. In 2017, the World Health Organization designated 
clarithromycin-resistant H. pylori as a high priority bacterium for antibiotic 
research and development. In addition to clarithromycin, resistance to 
metronidazole and fluoroquinolones has also increased worldwide. Recent 
international guidelines for management of H. pylori infection recommend bismuth 
or non-bismuth quadruple therapy for 14 d as a first-line treatment for H. 
pylori in areas of high clarithromycin and/or metronidazole resistance. Although 
these treatment regimens provide acceptable H. pylori eradication rates, the 
regimens used should not contribute to future resistance of H. pylori to 
antimicrobials. Moreover, these regimens can promote resistance, due to 
prolonged therapy with multiple antibiotics. A new strategy that can eradicate 
H. pylori as well as reduce the antibiotics used is required to prevent future 
antimicrobial resistance in H. pylori. Dual-therapy with vonoprazan and 
amoxicillin could be a breakthrough for H. pylori eradication in an era of 
growing antimicrobial resistance. This regimen may provide a satisfactory 
eradication rate of H. pylori and also minimize antimicrobial resistance due to 
single antibiotic use and the strong inhibitory effect of vonoprazan on gastric 
acid secretion.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v25.i16.1907
PMCID: PMC6487377
PMID: 31086459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict-of-interest statement: Gotoda T 
received honorarium from AstraZeneca K.K., Daiichi Sankyo Company Limited, EA 
Pharma Co., Ltd., and Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited.


57. PLoS One. 2022 May 24;17(5):e0267791. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0267791. 
eCollection 2022.

Evaluation of pharmacokinetic interactions of amoxicillin with ranitidine in 
healthy human volunteers of Karachi, Pakistan.

Perveen S(1)(2), Gauhar S(3), Yousuf RI(1), Ali H(2), Zafar F(1), Sheikh AF(4).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Pharmacy, Department of Pharmaceutics, University of Karachi, 
Karachi, Pakistan.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutics, Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Jinnah 
Sindh Medical University, Karachi, Pakistan.
(3)RAK College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, RAK MHSU, Ras Al Khaimah, UAE.
(4)College of Pharmacy, Dow University of Health Sciences, Karachi, Pakistan.

Polypharmacy may be considered as the customary practice to provide optimum care 
services to patients but inter resulted in augmented probability of multiple 
drug interaction. Keeping in view the importance of drug interaction 
possibility, this study was designed to evaluate the effect of ranitidine on 
pharmacokinetics of amoxicillin in the local population of Karachi, Pakistan. 
Amoxicillin and ranitidine are the most commonly prescribed drugs to treat 
duodenal ulcer caused by Helicobacter pylori. The current investigation was 
carried out as a single center, open label, two phase, single dose, randomized 
way in cross over manner to evaluate the potential of pharmacokinetic 
interaction among amoxicillin formulation and ranitidine in adult healthy male 
volunteers. Post dosing blood samples were collected at multiple time points 
that are 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8 and 10 hours after administering amoxicillin 
250mg capsule with and without ranitidine. For estimation of amoxicillin 
concentration in plasma, an HPLC method was developed and validated. The solvent 
system consisted of 0.025M phosphate buffer: acetonitrile (94:6 v/v). C18 column 
was employed with a flow rate of 1.0 ml/minute and at 230nm. A linear pattern 
with a correlation coefficient of 0.999 in the concentration ranges of 25μg/mL 
to 0.097μg/mL for amoxicillin and 25μg/mL to 0.048μg/mL for ranitidine was 
observed. Amoxicillin retention time was about 8 minutes and ranitidine 
retention time was around 12 minutes. Amoxicillin levels were computed and the 
concentrations were applied to calculate the pharmacokinetic parameters. 
Pharmacokinetic parameters were estimated by Kinetica TM 4.4.1 (Thermo Electron 
Corp. USA). The analysis of variance (two way) and t test (two one sided) were 
applied on log transformed pharmacokinetic parameters of amoxicillin. The Tmax 
was determined between amoxicillin alone and amoxicillin with ranitidine by 
Friedman test. The 90% confidence interval values for Cmax(calc) (0.687-0.743) 
and Tmax(calc) (1.148-1.742) for amoxicillin with or without ranitidine were not 
found within the FDA acceptable limits of 0.8-1.25. Study demonstrated the 
significant reduction in peak plasma levels of amoxicillin in presence of 
ranitidine. It is advisable to administer both drugs with time interval to avoid 
such interactions and increases in the bactericidal efficacy of amoxicillin.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0267791
PMCID: PMC9128966
PMID: 35609024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


58. J Assoc Med Microbiol Infect Dis Can. 2023 Sep 18;8(2):116-124. doi: 
10.3138/jammi-2022-0032. eCollection 2023 Sep.

Establishing obstetrics-specific metrics and interventions for antimicrobial 
stewardship.

Wong JMH(1), Wooding DJ(2), Leung SE(3), Paquette V(3), Roberts A(4), Elwood 
C(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
(2)Department of Anesthesiology, Pharmacology and Therapeutics, University of 
British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, Children's and Women's Health Centre of BC, 
Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
(4)Department of Pediatrics, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British 
Columbia, Canada.
(5)Women's Health Research Institute, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.

BACKGROUND: To describe baseline antimicrobial stewardship (AMS) metrics and 
apply AMS interventions in an inpatient obstetrical population.
METHODS: From October 2018 to October 2019, our tertiary-care obstetrical center 
reviewed components of our AMS program, which included: (1) antimicrobial 
consumption data, (2) point prevalence surveys (PPS), and (3) prospective audit 
and feedback. We reviewed institutional data for antimicrobial consumption from 
the pharmacy database. Detailed point prevalence surveys were conducted for all 
antimicrobial prescriptions on two predefined dates each month. Daily audits and 
feedback assessed the appropriateness of all non-protocolized antimicrobials.
RESULTS: Our average antimicrobial length of therapy (LOT) was 12 days per 100 
patient-days, where erythromycin (2.33), amoxicillin (2.28), and ampicillin 
(1.81) were the greatest contributors. Point prevalence surveys revealed that 
28.8% of obstetrical inpatients were on antimicrobials, of which 11.2% were 
inappropriate. Protocolized antimicrobials were 62% less likely (p = 0.027) to 
be inappropriate. From 565 audited prescriptions, 110 (19.5%) resulted in 
feedback, where 90% of recommendations were accepted and implemented. The most 
common reasons for interventions include incorrect dosage, recommending a 
diagnostic test before continuing antimicrobials, and changing antimicrobials 
based on specific culture and sensitivity.
CONCLUSIONS: Antimicrobial use in obstetrics is unique compared to general 
inpatients. We provide a baseline set of metrics for AMS at our obstetrical 
center intending to lay the groundwork for AMS programming in our discipline. 
Antimicrobial protocolization, as well as audit and feedback, are feasible 
interventions to improve antimicrobial prescribing patterns.

Publisher: HISTORIQUE: Décrire les mesures de gouvernance antimicrobienne (GAM) 
fondamentales et utiliser les interventions de GAM dans une population 
obstétricale hospitalisée.
MÉTHODOLOGIE: D’octobre 2018 à octobre 2019, le centre obstétrical de soins 
tertiaires a révisé les éléments du programme de GAM, qui incluait : 1) les 
données sur la consommation d’antimicrobiens, 2) les enquêtes de prévalence 
ponctuelles (EPP) et 3) la vérification et la rétroaction prospectives. Les 
chercheurs ont examiné les données institutionnelles relatives à la consommation 
d’antimicrobiens dans la base de données de la pharmacie. Ils ont effectué des 
enquêtes de prévalence ponctuelles détaillées sur toutes les prescriptions 
d’antimicrobiens à deux dates déterminées chaque mois. Les vérifications et les 
rétroactions quotidiennes ont permis d’évaluer la pertinence de tous les 
antimicrobiens non protocolisés.
RÉSULTATS: La durée du traitement antimicrobien moyen était de 12 jours sur 100 
jours-patients, et l’érythromycine (2,33), l’amoxicilline (2,28) et 
l’ampicilline (1,81) étaient les plus utilisées. Les enquêtes de prévalence 
ponctuelles ont révélé que 28,8 % des patientes obstétricales hospitalisées 
prenaient des antimicrobiens, dont 11,2 % étaient inappropriés. Les 
antimicrobiens protocolisés étaient 62 % moins susceptibles d’être inappropriés 
(p = 0,027). Des 565 prescriptions vérifiées, 110 (19,5 %) ont donné lieu à des 
rétroactions, et 90 % des recommandations ont été acceptées et mises en œuvre. 
Les principales raisons d’intervenir incluaient une posologie inexacte, la 
recommandation d’un test diagnostique avant de poursuivre l’antimicrobien, ainsi 
que le changement d’antimicrobien d’après la culture et sensibilité spécifiques.
CONCLUSIONS: L’utilisation d’antimicrobiens est unique en obstétrique par 
rapport aux autres patients hospitalisés. Les chercheurs fournissent la série de 
mesures de GAM de référence utilisée à leur centre obstétrical pour jeter les 
bases de la programmation de la GAM dans la discipline. La protocolisation des 
antimicrobiens, de même que la vérification et la rétroaction, est une 
intervention faisable pour améliorer les profils de prescription 
d’antimicrobiens.

© Association of Medical Microbiology and Infectious Disease Canada (AMMI 
Canada), 2023.

DOI: 10.3138/jammi-2022-0032
PMCID: PMC10795696
PMID: 38250287

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have nothing to disclose.


59. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2020 Apr 1;21(4):1109-1114. doi: 
10.31557/APJCP.2020.21.4.1109.

Efficacy of Omeprazole, Tetracycline, and 4 Times Daily Dosing of Amoxicillin in 
Helicobacter pylori Eradication in Limited Resource Area in Bhutan: A 
Prospective Randomized Trial (BHUTAN Study).

Vilaichone RK(1)(2)(3), Aumpan N(1)(3), Ratanachu-Ek T(4), Gamnarai P(3)(5), 
Uchida T(6), Tshering L(7), Mahachai V(8), Yamaoka Y(9).

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterology Unit, Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Thammasat 
University Hospital, Pathumthani, Thailand.
(2)Department of Medicine, Chulabhorn International College of Medicine (CICM) 
at Thammasat University, Pathumthani, Pathumthani, Thailand.
(3)Digestive diseases Research Center (DRC), Thammasat University, Pathumthani, 
Thailand.
(4)Department of Surgery, Rajavithi Hospital, Bangkok, Thailand.
(5)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine, Thammasat University, 
Pathumthani, Thailand.
(6)Department of Molecular Pathology, Oita University Faculty of Medicine, Yufu, 
Japan.
(7)Department of Surgery, Jigme Dorji Wangchuk National Referral Hospital, 
Thimphu, Bhutan.
(8)Gastrointestinal and Liver Center, Bangkok Medical Center, Bangkok, Thailand.
(9)Department of Environmental and Preventive Medicine, Oita University Faculty 
of Medicine, Yufu, Japan.

Backgrourd: H. pylori-associated gastric cancer is the first cancer-related 
death in Bhutan. Effective regimen for H. pylori eradication is essential to 
reduce risk of developing gastric cancer. Clarithromycin is not widely used in 
this limited resource country. Aim of this study was to evaluate proper regimen 
and prevalence of antibiotic resistance pattern for H. pylori eradication in 
Bhutan.
METHODS: Five hundred and forty-six patients underwent gastroscopy during 
GASTROCAMP between October 2014 and April 2015 in Bhutan and 77 patients were 
enrolled. Four gastric biopsies were obtained for rapid urease test, 
histopathology, H. pylori culture with Epsilometer test. All H. pylori-positive 
patients were randomized to receive either 7-day or 14-day of 500 mg amoxicillin 
four times daily, 500 mg tetracycline four times daily, and 20 mg omeprazole 
twice daily.
RESULTS: Seventy-seven subjects were enrolled (54 females, 23 males, mean age = 
45.4 years). Of 77 patients, 52 (67.5%) received 7-day regimen while 25 (32.5%) 
had 14-day regimen. Prevalence of H. pylori was 38.2%. Antibiotic resistance was 
80.0% for metronidazole, 11.1% for levofloxacin and no resistance seen in 
amoxicillin, tetracycline and clarithromycin. Overall eradication rates of 7-day 
and 14-day regimens were 51.9% and 80.0%, p = 0.02. Female and age ≥40 years had 
significantly higher eradication rate when receiving 14-day compared to 7-day 
regimen (94.1% vs. 45.9%, OR = 18.82; 95% CI 2.26-157.02, p = 0.0007 and 86.7% 
vs. 50.0%, OR = 6.50; 95% CI 1.25-33.91, p = 0.02, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Fourteen-day regimen might be an acceptable regimen for H. pylori 
eradication in limited resource area such as Bhutan. Female and age ≥40 years 
should receive longer duration of treatment. This 14-day regimen could at least 
reduce the risk of developing H. pylori-associated diseases especially peptic 
ulcer with complications and gastric cancer which lead to many deaths in 
Bhutan.<br />.

DOI: 10.31557/APJCP.2020.21.4.1109
PMCID: PMC7445957
PMID: 32334478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Am Fam Physician. 2007 Dec 1;76(11):1650-8.

Diagnosis and treatment of otitis media.

Ramakrishnan K(1), Sparks RA, Berryhill WE.

Author information:
(1)University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center, Oklahoma City 73104, USA. 
kramakrishnan@ouhsc.edu

Erratum in
    Am Fam Physician. 2008 Jul 1;78(1):30. Dosage error in article text.

Comment in
    Am Fam Physician. 2008 Jul 1;78(1):28; discussion 30.

Summary for patients in
    Am Fam Physician. 2007 Dec 1;76(11):1659-60.

Diagnostic criteria for acute otitis media include rapid onset of symptoms, 
middle ear effusion, and signs and symptoms of middle ear inflammation. 
Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, and Moraxella catarrhalis are 
the most common bacterial isolates from the middle ear fluid of children with 
acute otitis media. Fever, otalgia, headache, irritability, cough, rhinitis, 
listlessness, anorexia, vomiting, diarrhea, and pulling at the ears are common, 
but nonspecific symptoms. Detection of middle ear effusion by pneumatic otoscopy 
is key in establishing the diagnosis. Observation is an acceptable option in 
healthy children with mild symptoms. Antibiotics are recommended in all children 
younger than six months, in those between six months and two years if the 
diagnosis is certain, and in children with severe infection. High-dosage 
amoxicillin (80 to 90 mg per kg per day) is recommended as first-line therapy. 
Macrolide antibiotics, clindamycin, and cephalosporins are alternatives in 
penicillin-sensitive children and in those with resistant infections. Patients 
who do not respond to treatment should be reassessed. Hearing and language 
testing is recommended in children with suspected hearing loss or persistent 
effusion for at least three months, and in those with developmental problems.

PMID: 18092706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


61. AAPS PharmSciTech. 2014 Oct;15(5):1076-86. doi: 10.1208/s12249-014-0135-6. Epub 
2014 May 22.

In vitro dissolution of generic immediate-release solid oral dosage forms 
containing BCS class I drugs: comparative assessment of metronidazole, 
zidovudine, and amoxicillin versus relevant comparator pharmaceutical products 
in South Africa and India.

Reddy NH(1), Patnala S, Löbenberg R, Kanfer I.

Author information:
(1)Basic Science Research Center, KLE University, Belgaum, Karnataka, 590010, 
India.

Biowaivers are recommended for immediate-release solid oral dosage forms using 
dissolution testing as a surrogate for in vivo bioequivalence studies. Several 
guidance are currently available (the World Health Organization (WHO), the US 
FDA, and the EMEA) where the conditions are described. In this study, 
definitions, criteria, and methodologies according to the WHO have been applied. 
The dissolution performances of immediate-release metronidazole, zidovudine, and 
amoxicillin products purchased in South African and Indian markets were compared 
to the relevant comparator pharmaceutical product (CPP)/reference product. The 
dissolution performances were studied using US Pharmacopeia (USP) apparatus 2 
(paddle) set at 75 rpm in each of three dissolution media (pH1.2, 4.5, and 6.8). 
Concentrations of metronidazole, zidovudine, and amoxicillin in each dissolution 
media were determined by HPLC. Of the 11 metronidazole products tested, only 8 
could be considered as very rapidly dissolving products as defined by the WHO, 
whereas 2 of those products could be considered as rapidly dissolving products 
but did not comply with the f 2 acceptance criteria in pH 6.8. All 11 zidovudine 
products were very rapidly dissolving, whereas in the case of the 14 amoxicillin 
products tested, none of those products met any of the WHO criteria. This study 
indicates that not all generic products containing the same biopharmaceutics 
classification system (BCS) I drug and in similar strength and dosage form are 
necessarily in vitro equivalent. Hence, there is a need for ongoing market 
surveillance to determine whether marketed generic products containing BCS I 
drugs meet the release requirements to confirm their in vitro bioequivalence to 
the respective reference product.

DOI: 10.1208/s12249-014-0135-6
PMCID: PMC4179660
PMID: 24848760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Am J Med. 1996 May 20;100(5A):42S-50S; discussion 50S-51S. doi: 
10.1016/s0002-9343(96)80228-2.

Eradication of Helicobacter pylori infection.

Hunt RH(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, McMaster University Medical Centre, Hamilton, 
Ontario, Canada.

Helicobacter pylori is probably the most common bacterial infection worldwide 
and the accepted cause of chronic active gastritis. It has a critical role in 
duodenal ulcer, where the prevalence of infection is 90-95%. There is a dramatic 
reduction in the rate of ulcer recurrence after successful eradication of the 
organism to about 4% per annum compared with up to 80% when the infection 
persists. What is true for duodenal ulcers is also true for patients with 
gastric ulcer who are infected with H. pylori. The risk of recurrent ulcer 
complications with bleeding is virtually abolished following successful 
eradication of H. pylori; in contrast, the risk of rebleeding is about 33% in 
patients still harboring the organism. The treatment of H. pylori infection in 
patients with confirmed peptic ulcer on first presentation or recurrence has 
been advocated by a Consensus Conference of the National Institutes of Health. 
The most evaluated regimens include dual therapy with a proton pump inhibitor 
and either amoxicillin or clarithromycin, and bismuth-based triple therapy with 
metronidazole and tetracycline. The use of a proton pump inhibitor-containing 
regimen offers the advantage of rapid symptom relief and the highest rates of 
duodenal ulcer healing. Moreover, combinations of a proton pump inhibitor and 
clarithromycin show more predictable and higher eradication rates than 
amoxicillin combinations. Newer triple therapies with a proton pump inhibitor 
plus two antibacterial agents given for 7-1O days are being increasingly 
described and may become the treatment of choice if initial results are 
confirmed. However, the optimum dosage regimen needs to be established. A new 
combination of ranitidine bismuth citrate and clarithromycin has also recently 
been shown to be effective. At this time it is reasonable to consider all 
patients with confirmed duodenal or gastric ulcer for eradication of H. pylori, 
and no patient should be considered for elective surgery without first being 
offered eradication therapy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9343(96)80228-2
PMID: 8644782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Top Companion Anim Med. 2017 Sep;32(3):104-108. doi: 10.1053/j.tcam.2017.11.002. 
Epub 2017 Nov 28.

Effect of Enterococcus Faecium Strain SF68 on Gastrointestinal Signs and Fecal 
Microbiome in Cats Administered Amoxicillin-Clavulanate.

Torres-Henderson C(1), Summers S(1), Suchodolski J(2), Lappin MR(3).

Author information:
(1)Center for Companion Animal Studies, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, 
CO, USA.
(2)Gastrointestinal Laboratory, Texas A and M, College Station, TX, USA.
(3)Center for Companion Animal Studies, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, 
CO, USA. Electronic address: mlappin@colostate.edu.

Some cats develop vomiting or diarrhea during administration of some antibiotics 
such as amoxicillin-clavulanate but how often this occurs and the severity of 
disease is generally unknown. In people, one of the accepted indications for the 
use of probiotics is to attempt and lessen antibiotic-associated diarrhea. 
Enterococcus faecium strain SF68 (SF68; Purina® ProPlan® Veterinary Diets; 
FortiFlora™ Probiotic Supplement) is a commercially available probiotic 
available in many countries that has been shown to lessen diarrhea rates in cats 
housed in animal shelters. The objectives of this study were to describe the 
gastrointestinal abnormalities (clinical and microbiome) associated with the 
administration of amoxicillin-clavulanate to cats and to determine whether 
feeding SF68 could ameliorate those abnormalities. Laboratory reared domestic 
cats were administered amoxicillin-clavulanate for 7 days with or without SF68 
for 14 days and monitored for vomiting and diarrhea and for changes in the 
gastrointestinal microbiome before and after antibiotic administration. Fecal 
scores > 5 on a 7-point scale were detected in 9 of 13 cats (69.2%) fed SF68 
compared to 12 of 14 cats fed the placebo (85.7%). Fecal scores of 7 were only 
detected in the placebo group and when total diarrhea scores were compared 
between groups for days 1-11, the cats fed SF68 were statistically lower (P = 
0.0058). Administration of amoxicillin-clavulanate led to decreased microbiome 
diversity, but differences between cats fed SF68 or the placebo were not 
detected. The results show administering amoxicillin-clavulanate orally to cats 
commonly induces diarrhea and alters the gastrointestinal microbiome, and that 
feeding the probiotic SF68 can lessen some associated clinical abnormalities.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.tcam.2017.11.002
PMID: 29291771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Prescrire Int. 2016 Jan;25(167):18-23.

Helicobacter pylori and gastric or duodenal ulcer.

[No authors listed]

In patients with gastric or duodenal ulcer associated with Helicobacter pylori, 
treatment of the infection improves healing and prevents complications and 
recurrences. The drug regimen generally consists of a high-dose proton-pump 
inhibitor (PPI) such as omeprazole plus antibiotics. Using the standard 
Prescrire methodology, we conducted a review of the literature in order to 
determine the standard empirical antibiotic regimen for H. pylori infection in 
adults with gastric or duodenal ulcer in France. In 2015, due to an increase in 
H. pylori resistance to clarithromycin, a 7-day course of the PPI + 
clarithromycin + amoxicillin combination is effective in only about 70% of 
cases. A Cochrane systematic review and meta-analysis of trials involving 
thousands of patients suggests that prolonging treatment with a PPI + 
amoxicillin + clarithromycin or a PPI + amoxicillin + metronidazole to 10 or 14 
days improves the rate of H. pylori eradication by 5% to 10%. A metanalysis of 
seven trials including a total of about 1000 patients showed that combination 
therapy with a PPI + amoxicillin + clarithromycin + metronidazole for 5 days 
eradicates H. pylori in about 90% of cases, compared to about 80% of cases with 
a PPI + amoxicillin + clarithromycin given for 7 days. Sequential treatment with 
amoxicillin for 5 days, followed by clarithromycin + metronidazole for 5 days, 
has also been tested in thousands of patients. Efficacy and adverse effects were 
similar to those observed when the same antibiotics were taken simultaneously 
for 5 days. In randomised trials, replacing clarithromycin or amoxicillin with a 
fluoroquinolone yielded conflicting results. In 2009, nearly 20% of H. pylori 
isolates were resistant to levofloxacin in France. Tetracycline has only been 
evaluated in combination with bismuth. The few available data on doxycycline 
suggest that its efficacy is similar to that of tetracycline. A fixed-dose 
combination of bismuth subcitrate potassium + metronidazole + tetracycline is 
authorised in the European Union for use in combination with omeprazole for 10 
days. It seems effective, even in case of clarithromycin resistance. However, 
bismuth can cause encephalopathy, and its value when added to antibiotics and a 
PPI is poorly documented. We found no robust comparative data on second-line 
empirical treatments. In patients with gastric or duodenal ulcer associated with 
H. pylori, eradication of the bacterium reduces the risk of complications and 
recurrence. In mid-2015, the choice of antibiotics is based on trials in which 
the primary endpoint was a negative urea breath test, which is an acceptable 
surrogate criterion. In previously untreated patients, the first-choice 
empirical treatment consists of three antibiotics: amoxicillin (2 g daily), 
clarithromycin (1 g daily) and metronidazole (1 g daily), plus a PPI (in 
practice, omeprazole 40 mg daily), with each drug taken in two divided doses per 
day. The antibiotics may be taken either simultaneously for five days, or 
sequentially (amoxicillin for 5 days, followed by clarithromycin + metronidazole 
for 5 days). The adverse effects of these antibiotic combinations correspond to 
those of their component drugs, which mainly consist of gastrointestinal 
disorders and the disulfiram-like reaction of metronidazole. Amoxicillin can be 
replaced by a fluoroquinolone in patients allergic to beta-lactam antibiotics, 
but there is a higher risk of resistance. Tetracycline and doxycycline appear 
effective, as few H. pylori strains are resistant in vitro. Bismuth can cause 
encephalopathy and should only be used in special cases.

PMID: 26942258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2020 May;32(5):563-568. doi: 
10.1097/MEG.0000000000001646.

Efficacy of modified esomeprazole-amoxicillin dual therapies for Helicobacter 
pylori infection: an open-label, randomized trial.

Zhang Y(1), Zhu YJ, Zhao Z, Zhao JT, Wang TY, Yang J, Chen DF, Lan CH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Daping Hospital, Army Medical University, 
Chongqing, China.

Comment in
    Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2020 May;32(5):555-556. doi: 
10.1097/MEG.0000000000001654.

OBJECTIVE: The prevalence of Helicobacter pylori resistance to amoxicillin was 
less than 5% in most countries. Proton pump inhibitor (PPI)-amoxicillin dual 
therapy dosing four times daily (q.i.d.) for 14 days could achieve an 
eradication rate of more than 85%. It is unclear whether dual therapy with 
shorter treatment duration or lower dosing frequency could also attain a 
satisfactory cure rate. We conducted a randomized controlled trial to assess the 
efficacy and safety of two modified esomeprazole-amoxicillin dual therapies, 
10-day q.i.d. and 14-day three times daily (t.i.d.) dual therapy, and 
investigate the factors that might affect the eradication rates.
PARTICIPANTS AND METHODS: A total of 253 patients were screened for eligibility 
and 208 patients were randomly assigned to 10-day dual therapy (esomeprazole 
20 mg and amoxicillin 750 mg, all given four times daily) or 14-day dual therapy 
(esomeprazole 20 mg and amoxicillin 1000 mg, all given three times daily).
RESULTS: In the intention-to-treat analysis, the eradication rates for 10-day 
and 14-day groups were 79.8% [95% confidence interval (CI): 70.2-87.4%] and 
83.5% (95% CI: 74.3-90.5%) as first-line therapies; and 80% (95% CI: 44.4-97.5%) 
and 76.9% (95% CI: 46.2-95.0%) as rescue therapies. The adverse event rates were 
5.9% and 5.0% for 10-day and 14-day groups, respectively. Smoking and compliance 
significantly affected the efficacy of PPI-amoxicillin dual therapies.
CONCLUSION: The eradication rate of 10-day q.i.d. dual therapy was unacceptable, 
while that of the 14-day t.i.d. dual therapy was borderline acceptable for 
first-line therapy. The two dual therapies were well tolerated with few adverse 
effects.

DOI: 10.1097/MEG.0000000000001646
PMID: 31851093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. World J Gastroenterol. 2006 Apr 21;12(15):2313-9. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v12.i15.2313.

Third-line rescue therapy for Helicobacter pylori infection.

Cianci R, Montalto M, Pandolfi F, Gasbarrini GB, Cammarota G.

H pylori gastric infection is one of the most prevalent infectious diseases 
worldwide. The discovery that most upper gastrointestinal diseases are related 
to H pylori infection and therefore can be treated with antibiotics is an 
important medical advance. Currently, a first-line triple therapy based on 
proton pump inhibitor (PPI) or ranitidine bismuth citrate (RBC) plus two 
antibiotics (clarithromycin and amoxicillin or nitroimidazole) is recommended by 
all consensus conferences and guidelines. Even with the correct use of this drug 
combination, infection can not be eradicated in up to 23% of patients. 
Therefore, several second line therapies have been recommended. A 7 d quadruple 
therapy based on PPI, bismuth, tetracycline and metronidazole is the more 
frequently accepted. However, with second-line therapy, bacterial eradication 
may fail in up to 40% of cases. When H pylori eradication is strictly indicated 
the choice of further treatment is controversial. Currently, a standard 
third-line therapy is lacking and various protocols have been proposed. Even 
after two consecutive failures, the most recent literature data have 
demonstrated that H pylori eradication can be achieved in almost all patients, 
even when antibiotic susceptibility is not tested. Different possibilities of 
empirical treatment exist and the available third-line strategies are herein 
reviewed.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v12.i15.2313
PMCID: PMC4088063
PMID: 16688818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. BMC Pregnancy Childbirth. 2024 Mar 11;24(1):189. doi: 
10.1186/s12884-024-06393-3.

Knowledge and practice of community pharmacists regarding the safety of drugs 
during pregnancy: a cross-sectional study from a developing country.

Koni AA(1)(2), Qashoa H(1), Musa AA(1), Masri M(1), Hazem W(1), Taha S(3), 
Daifallah A(1), Al-Jabi SW(1), Abushanab AS(1), Zyoud SH(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Community Pharmacy, Faculty of Medicine and Health 
Sciences, An-Najah National University, Nablus, 44839, Palestine.
(2)Division of Clinical Pharmacy, Department of Hematology and Oncology, 
An-Najah National University Hospital, Nablus, 44839, Palestine.
(3)Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, An-Najah 
National University, Nablus, 44839, Palestine.
(4)Department of Clinical and Community Pharmacy, Faculty of Medicine and Health 
Sciences, An-Najah National University, Nablus, 44839, Palestine. 
saedzyoud@yahoo.com.
(5)Poison Control and Drug Information Center (PCDIC), Faculty of Medicine and 
Health Sciences, An- Najah National University, Nablus, 44839, Palestine. 
saedzyoud@yahoo.com.
(6)Clinical Research Center, An-Najah National University Hospital, Nablus, 
44839, Palestine. saedzyoud@yahoo.com.

BACKGROUND: Drug use during pregnancy can cause unfavorable fetal and maternal 
outcomes. Information sharing is essential for pharmacists' role within 
intricate, modern healthcare systems. Community pharmacists (CPs) have 
demonstrated unsatisfactory knowledge across various pharmacological domains in 
most developing countries. This study aimed to explore the knowledge and 
practices of CPs regarding medications and herb safety during pregnancy.
METHODS: A cross-sectional study was conducted in a developing country using a 
self-administered questionnaire. A sample of CPs working in the northern 
governorates of the West Bank was selected by convenience sampling. The 
questionnaire included questions on sociodemographic characteristics, practices 
and knowledge. Descriptive and inferential statistics were calculated using the 
Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS) to analyze the data.
RESULTS: A total of 207 questionnaires were completed. Most respondents had only 
a bachelor's degree (89.9%) but did not participate in continuous professional 
development (CPD) (71.0%). Almost one-third of the CP workload involved 
dispensing drugs to pregnant women. The majority of the participants reported 
that they inquire about pregnancy status (59.9%), refer to scientific sources 
(82.6%), and contact a prescribing physician (51.2%) in cases of uncertainty. A 
higher knowledge score was associated with receiving a master's degree and CPD 
programs. Most CPs identified folic acid, paracetamol and amoxicillin as safe, 
while tetracycline, isotretinoin, enalapril, pseudoephedrine and ibuprofen were 
among the drugs mostly reported as unsafe. Castor oil, Senna, St. John's wort 
and ginseng were the most frequently reported herbs as unsafe.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite the gaps in knowledge about herb pharmacology, CPs 
demonstrated acceptable knowledge and practice regarding drug safety during 
pregnancy. CPD is recommended for addressing gaps in knowledge and practice. 
Future research evaluating knowledge and practice may benefit from developing a 
specific, accurate, validated instrument.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12884-024-06393-3
PMCID: PMC10926555
PMID: 38468217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


68. J Allergy Clin Immunol Pract. 2019 Jan;7(1):236-243. doi: 
10.1016/j.jaip.2018.05.008. Epub 2018 May 23.

Safety and Outcomes of Oral Graded Challenges to Amoxicillin without Prior Skin 
Testing.

Iammatteo M(1), Alvarez Arango S(2), Ferastraoaru D(1), Akbar N(3), Lee AY(3), 
Cohen HW(4), Jerschow E(5).

Author information:
(1)Division of Allergy and Immunology, Department of Medicine, Montefiore 
Medical Center, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY.
(2)Division of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, Johns Hopkins Hospital, 
Baltimore, Md.
(3)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Montefiore Medical Center, Bronx, NY.
(4)Department of Epidemiology & Population Health, Albert Einstein College of 
Medicine, Bronx, NY.
(5)Division of Allergy and Immunology, Department of Medicine, Montefiore 
Medical Center, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY. Electronic 
address: Elina.Jerschow@einstein.yu.edu.

BACKGROUND: Unconfirmed penicillin allergy poses substantial public health 
consequences. The most widely accepted protocol to evaluate penicillin allergy 
is skin testing followed by an amoxicillin challenge.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the safety of direct oral graded challenges to 
amoxicillin.
METHODS: A prospective single-blind clinical trial with historical controls of 
patients ≥7 years old with historical non-life-threatening reactions to 
penicillin was conducted. Patients received placebo followed by a 2-step graded 
challenge to amoxicillin. The allergic reaction rate was compared with the rate 
observed in our previous study that included skin testing and with the currently 
reported penicillin allergy prevalence in the US population.
RESULTS: Of the 155 participants who completed an amoxicillin challenge, 120 
patients (77.4%) experienced no reaction whereas 31 patients (20%) experienced 
nonallergic reactions to either placebo (n = 16) or amoxicillin (n = 15). Four 
patients (2.6%) developed mild allergic reactions. Significantly (P = .03) fewer 
patients (4 of 155, 2.6%, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.0%, 6.5%) were 
determined to be allergic compared with 14 of 170 subjects (8.2%, 95% CI: 5.0%, 
13.4%) in our previous study where patients were determined to be allergic based 
on either positive skin tests (n = 11) or allergic challenge reactions after 
negative skin tests (n = 3). This 2.6% reaction rate was also significantly less 
than the 10% reported US prevalence of penicillin allergy (P = .003).
CONCLUSIONS: Placebo-controlled oral graded challenges to amoxicillin without 
prior skin testing may be safe for patients ≥7 years old with 
non-life-threatening historical reactions to penicillin. Amoxicillin can be 
tolerated by the majority of patients with self-reported penicillin allergy.

Copyright © 2019 American Academy of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaip.2018.05.008
PMID: 29802906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Clin Ther. 2002 Nov;24(11):1854-70. doi: 10.1016/s0149-2918(02)80084-4.

A comparison of cefditoren pivoxil and amoxicillin/ clavulanate in the treatment 
of community-acquired pneumonia: a multicenter, prospective, randomized, 
investigator-blinded, parallel-group study.

Fogarty CM(1), Cyganowski M, Palo WA, Hom RC, Craig WA.

Author information:
(1)Spartanburg Pharmaceutical Research, Spartanburg, South Carolina 29307, USA. 
CMF@bonetesting.com

BACKGROUND: Cefditoren pivoxil is a broad-spectrum cephalosporin that is 
approved for the treatment of pharyngitis, acute exacerbations of chronic 
bronchitis, and skin and skin-structure infections.
OBJECTIVE: This study was conducted to examine the efficacy and tolerability of 
cefditoren in the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia (CAP). 
Amoxicillin/clavulanate was chosen as a comparator because of its established 
efficacy and general acceptance as a standard of care in CAP.
METHODS: This multicenter, prospective, randomized, investigator-blinded, 
parallel-group trial compared oral cefditoren 200 and 400 mg BID with oral 
amoxicillin/clavulanate 875/125 mg BID for 14 days in adult outpatients with 
CAP.
RESULTS: Eight hundred two patients (404 men, 398 women; mean age, 50 years; age 
range, 12-93 years) with CAP were enrolled. Comparable clinical cure rates were 
observed among evaluable patients in all treatment groups at both the 
posttreatment and follow-up visits: 88.0% (125/142) for cefditoren 200 mg, 89.9% 
(143/159) for cefditoren 400 mg, and 90.3% (130/144) for amoxicillin/clavulanate 
at the posttreatment visit, and 86.5% (128/148), 86.8% (138/159), and 87.8% 
(129/147) for the respective groups at the follow-up visit. Of 82 Streptococcus 
pneumoniae strains isolated before treatment, 22 (26.8%) had reduced 
susceptibility to penicillin, 12 (14.6%) of them penicillin resistant. Overall 
eradication rates at the posttreatment visit for pathogens isolated from 
microbiologically evaluable patients were 84.0%, 88.6%, and 82.6% for cefditoren 
200 mg, cefditoren 400 mg, and amoxicillin/clavulanate, respectively. In the 
respective treatment groups, 80.6%, 88.6%, and 88.0% of Haemophilus influenzae 
strains and 95.0%, 96.2%, and 89.5% of S pneumoniae strains were eradicated. The 
rates of resolution of or improvement in clinical signs and symptoms were 
comparable between treatment groups. The treatment regimens were well tolerated, 
with 4.9%, 3.0%, and 5.2% of patients in the respective treatment groups 
requiring discontinuation of study drug due to an adverse event.
CONCLUSIONS: In this study in adult outpatients with CAP, both doses of 
cefditoren demonstrated equivalence to amoxicillin/clavulanate based on rates of 
clinical and microbiologic cure. All 3 regimens were effective in resolving or 
improving the clinical signs and symptoms of CAP. Both cefditoren and 
amoxicillin/ clavulanate were well tolerated.

DOI: 10.1016/s0149-2918(02)80084-4
PMID: 12501879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Drugs. 1997 Nov;54(5):679-708. doi: 10.2165/00003495-199754050-00003.

Metronidazole. A therapeutic review and update.

Freeman CD(1), Klutman NE, Lamp KC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Missouri-Kansas City School of 
Medicine, USA. cfreeman@cctr.umkc.edu

The nitroimidazole antibiotic metronidazole has a limited spectrum of activity 
that encompasses various protozoans and most Gram-negative and Gram-positive 
anaerobic bacteria. Metronidazole has activity against protozoans like Entamoeba 
histolytica, Giardia lamblia and Trichomonas vaginalis, for which the drug was 
first approved as an effective treatment. Anaerobic bacteria which are typically 
sensitive are primarily Gram-negative anaerobes belonging to the Bacteroides and 
Fusobacterium spp. Gram-positive anaerobes such as peptostreptococci and 
Clostridia spp. are likely to test sensitive to metronidazole, but resistant 
isolates are probably encountered with greater frequency than with the 
Gram-negative anaerobes. Gardnerella vaginalis is a pleomorphic Gram-variable 
bacterial bacillus that is also susceptible to metronidazole. Helicobacter 
pylori has been strongly associated with gastritis and duodenal ulcers. Classic 
regimens for eradicating this pathogen have included metronidazole, usually with 
acid suppression medication plus bismuth and amoxicillin. The activity of 
metronidazole against anaerobic bowel flora has been used for prophylaxis and 
treatment of patients with Crohn's disease who might develop an infectious 
complication. Treatment of Clostridium difficile-induced pseudomembraneous 
colitis has usually been with oral metronidazole or vancomycin, but the lower 
cost and similar efficacy of metronidazole, coupled with the increased concern 
about imprudent use of vancomycin leading to increased resistance in 
enterococci, have made metronidazole the preferred agent here. Metronidazole has 
played an important role in anaerobic-related infections. Advantages to using 
metronidazole are the percentage of sensitive Gram-negative anaerobes, its 
availability as oral and intravenous dosage forms, its rapid bacterial killing, 
its good tissue penetration, its considerably lower chance of inducing C. 
difficile colitis, and expense. Metronidazole has notable effectiveness in 
treating anaerobic brain abscesses. Metronidazole is a cost-effective agent due 
to its low acquisition cost, its pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics, an 
acceptable adverse effect profile, and its undiminished antimicrobial activity. 
While its role as part of a therapeutic regimen for treating mixed 
aerobic/anaerobic infections has been reduced by newer, more expensive 
combination therapies, these new combinations have not been shown to have any 
therapeutic advantage over metronidazole. Although the use of metronidazole on a 
global scale has been curtailed by newer agents for various infections, 
metronidazole still has a role for these and other therapeutic uses. Many 
clinicians still consider metronidazole to be the 'gold standard' antibiotic 
against which all other antibiotics with anaerobic activity should be compared.

DOI: 10.2165/00003495-199754050-00003
PMID: 9360057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Polymers (Basel). 2020 Dec 24;13(1):46. doi: 10.3390/polym13010046.

Poly(δ-valerolactone)/Poly(ethylene-co-vinylalcohol)/β-Tri-calcium Phosphate 
Composite as Scaffolds: Preparation, Properties, and In Vitro Amoxicillin 
Release.

Badwelan M(1), Alkindi M(1), Alghamdi O(1), Saeed WS(2), Al-Odayni AB(2), 
Alrahlah A(2)(3), Aouak T(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, College of Dentistry, King Saud 
University, Riyadh 11545, Saudi Arabia.
(2)Engineer Abdullah Bugshan Research Chair for Dental and Oral Rehabilitation, 
College of Dentistry, King Saud University, Riyadh 11545, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Restorative Dental Sciences Department, College of Dentistry, King Saud 
University, Riyadh 11545, Saudi Arabia.
(4)Chemistry Department, College of Science, King Saud University, Riyadh 11451, 
Saudi Arabia.

Two poly(δ-valerolactone)/poly(ethylene-co-vinylalcohol)/beta-tricalcium 
phosphate (PEVAL/PDVAL/β-TCP) composites containing an equal ratio of polymer 
and filled with 50 and 70 wt% of β-TCP microparticles were prepared by the 
solvent casting method. Interconnected pores were realized using the salt 
leached technique, and the porosity of the resulted composites was evaluated by 
the scanning electron microscopy (SEM) method. The homogeneity of the hybrid 
materials was investigated by differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) and X-ray 
diffraction (XRD) analysis. The prepared materials' SEM images showed 
interconnected micropores that respond to the conditions required to allow their 
uses as scaffolds. The porosity of each scaffold was determined from micro 
computed tomography (micro-CT) data, and the analysis of the mechanical 
properties of the prepared materials was studied through the stress-strain 
compressive test. The proliferation test results used human mesenchymal stem 
cells (MSCs) to grow and proliferate on the different types of prepared 
materials, reflecting that the hybrid materials were non-toxic and could be 
biologically acceptable scaffolds. The antibacterial activity test revealed that 
incorporation of amoxicillin in the specimens could inhibit the bacterial growth 
of S. aureus. The in vitro study of the release of amoxicillin from the 
PEVAL/PDVAL/amoxicillin and PEVAL/PDVAL/β-TCP/amoxicillin drug carrier systems 
in pH media 7.4, during eight days, gave promising results, and the antibiotic 
diffusion in these scaffolds obeys the Fickian model.

DOI: 10.3390/polym13010046
PMCID: PMC7795067
PMID: 33374480

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


72. Pediatr Infect Dis J. 1997 Feb;16(2 Suppl):S21-4. doi: 
10.1097/00006454-199702001-00006.

Comparison of the efficacy, safety and acceptability of cefixime and 
amoxicillin/clavulanate in acute otitis media.

Gooch WM 3rd(1), Philips A, Rhoades R, Rosenberg R, Schaten R, Starobin S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Utah School of Medicine, Salt Lake 
City, USA.

BACKGROUND: Use of a beta-lactamase stable antibiotic is called for in cases of 
acute otitis media (AOM) likely to be caused by beta-lactamase-producing 
Haemophilus influenzae or Moraxella catarrhalis. Two beta-lactamase-stable 
agents commonly used for empirical treatment of AOM are amoxicillin/clavulanate 
and cefixime.
METHODS: A multicenter, randomized clinical trial compared cefixime (CFX; 8 
mg/kg once daily) with amoxicillin/clavulanate (A/C; 40 mg/kg/day in three 
divided doses) for the treatment of children with AOM. Three hundred thirteen 
children were randomly assigned to a 10-day course of either CFX (n = 158) or 
A/C (n = 155). Based on history, physical examinations and otoscopic and 
tympanometric assessments, clinical responses were evaluated as cure, 
improvement, failure, relapse or nonevaluable. Compliance and patient/parent 
acceptability were also analyzed.
RESULTS: Overall favorable clinical responses (cure plus improvement) were 
comparable post-therapy for the two treatments (CFX = 76%; A/C = 77%). 
Significant differences in response rates for both treatments were noted among 
different geographic regions, with the highest response rates observed in the 
Northeast and South. Acceptability of CFX was significantly better than that of 
A/C (P = 0.0001), and the adverse experience rate was lower (P = 0.001). The 
most frequently reported adverse experiences were diarrhea (CFX 15.2%, A/C 
29.7%) and vomiting (CFX 3.2%, A/C 10.32%). Relapse rates were 26% for CFX and 
29% for A/C.
CONCLUSION: This study demonstrated that CFX has comparable clinical efficacy 
and a better adverse events profile than A/C when used to treat AOM of 
childhood.

DOI: 10.1097/00006454-199702001-00006
PMID: 9041624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Am Fam Physician. 2011 Feb 15;83(4):409-15.

Diagnosis and treatment of urinary tract infections in children.

White B(1).

Author information:
(1)Oregon Health and Science University, Portland, OR, USA. 
brettwhitemd@gmail.com

Summary for patients in
    Am Fam Physician. 2011 Feb 15;83(4):416.

Acute urinary tract infections are relatively common in children, with 8 percent 
of girls and 2 percent of boys having at least one episode by seven years of 
age. The most common pathogen is Escherichia coli, accounting for approximately 
85 percent of urinary tract infections in children. Renal parenchymal defects 
are present in 3 to 15 percent of children within one to two years of their 
first diagnosed urinary tract infection. Clinical signs and symptoms of a 
urinary tract infection depend on the age of the child, but all febrile children 
two to 24 months of age with no obvious cause of infection should be evaluated 
for urinary tract infection (with the exception of circumcised boys older than 
12 months). Evaluation of older children may depend on the clinical presentation 
and symptoms that point toward a urinary source (e.g., leukocyte esterase or 
nitrite present on dipstick testing; pyuria of at least 10 white blood cells per 
high-power field and bacteriuria on microscopy). Increased rates of E. coli 
resistance have made amoxicillin a less acceptable choice for treatment, and 
studies have found higher cure rates with trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole. Other 
treatment options include amoxicillin/clavulanate and cephalosporins. 
Prophylactic antibiotics do not reduce the risk of subsequent urinary tract 
infections, even in children with mild to moderate vesicoureteral reflux. 
Constipation should be avoided to help prevent urinary tract infections. 
Ultrasonography, cystography, and a renal cortical scan should be considered in 
children with urinary tract infections.

PMID: 21322515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. BMJ Open. 2019 May 30;9(5):e024978. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2018-024978.

Evaluating the use of job aids and user instructions to improve adherence for 
the treatment of childhood pneumonia using amoxicillin dispersible tablets in a 
low-income setting: a mixed-method study.

Sarma H(1)(2), Gerth-Guyette E(3), Shakil SA(2), Alom KR(4), Abu-Haydar E(3), 
D'Rozario M(2), Tariqujjaman M(2), Arifeen SE(5), Ahmed T(2).

Author information:
(1)Research School of Population Health, The Australian National University, 
Canberra, Australian Capital Territory, Australia.
(2)Nutrition and Clinical Services Division, International Centre for Diarrhoeal 
Disease Research, Bangladesh, Dhaka, Bangladesh.
(3)PATH, Seattle, Washington, USA.
(4)University of Rajshahi, Rajshahi, Bangladesh.
(5)Maternal and Child Health Division, International Centre for Diarrhoeal 
Disease Research Bangladesh, Dhaka, Bangladesh.

OBJECTIVES: We conducted a study to evaluate the use of job aids and simple user 
instructions to improve adherence for the treatment of childhood pneumonia with 
amoxicillin dispersible tablet (DT).
DESIGN: A mixed-method study implemented in three phases between October 2015 
and February 2016.
SETTINGS: The study was implemented in two subdistricts of Bangladesh.
PARTICIPANTS: Caregivers of children aged 2-59 months, health service providers 
and key stakeholders at national and district level.
INTERVENTIONS: An intervention including training and job aids and user-friendly 
instructions was introduced in one subdistrict while standard amoxicillin DT 
packaging and instructions with no training served as the control in the 
comparison subdistrict.
PRIMARY OUTCOME: Adherence behaviour of caregivers of children aged 2-59 months 
for the treatment of childhood pneumonia with amoxicillin DT.
METHODS: We conducted a survey with 56 caregivers in the intervention 
subdistrict and 38 caregivers in the comparison subdistrict. We also conducted 
44 in-depth interviews to evaluate the job aids and user-friendly instructions 
with healthcare providers and caregivers to assess the feasibility, usability 
and acceptability of the tools in intervention subdistrict.
RESULTS: For 5-day treatment course, 32.1% (95% CI 23.1% to 41.1%) of caregivers 
in the intervention subdistrict and 2.6% (95% CI 0.3% to 7.8%) in the comparison 
subdistrict maintained full adherence to the amoxicillin DT treatment for 
pneumonia. More children under 12 months were given age-appropriate treatment 
than older children. Key stakeholders and healthcare providers considered the 
use and integration of the tools into the health system to be feasible and 
acceptable.
CONCLUSIONS: The provision of tools for the treatment of childhood pneumonia 
with amoxicillin DT had a positive influence on adherence behaviours. These 
tools can help close information gaps and overcome the barriers posed by medical 
illiteracy and remembering instructions from providers.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2019. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2018-024978
PMCID: PMC6549679
PMID: 31152030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


75. Luminescence. 2017 Sep;32(6):918-923. doi: 10.1002/bio.3271. Epub 2017 Apr 21.

Fluorescence-based sensor for selective and sensitive detection of amoxicillin 
(Amox) in aqueous medium: Application to pharmaceutical and biomedical analysis.

Pawar SP(1), Walekar LS(1), Gunjal DB(1), Dalavi DK(1), Gore AH(1), Anbhule 
PV(1), Patil SR(1), Kolekar GB(1).

Author information:
(1)Fluorescence Spectroscopy Research Laboratory, Department of Chemistry, 
Shivaji University, Kolhapur, Maharashtra, India.

We here for the first time demonstrate an analytical approach for the highly 
selective and sensitive detection of amoxicillin (Amox) in aqueous medium based 
on the fluorescence quenching of quantum dots (QDs). The change in fluorescence 
intensity of mercaptopropionic acid-capped cadmium sulphide (MPA-CdS) QDs is 
attributed to the increasing concentration of Amox. The results show that the 
fluorescence quenching of QDs by Amox takes place through both static and 
dynamic types of quenching mechanism. The fluorescence quenching of QDs with 
increase in concentration of Amox shows the linear range between 5 μg ml-1 and 
30 μg ml-1 and the limit of detection (LOD) is 5.19 μg ml-1 . There is no 
interference of excipients, which are commonly present in pharmaceutical 
formulation and urine samples. For the practical application approach, the 
developed method has been successfully applied for the determination of Amox in 
pharmaceutical formulations and urine samples with acceptable results.

Copyright © 2017 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/bio.3271
PMID: 28429837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Infection. 1983 Nov-Dec;11(6):329-35. doi: 10.1007/BF01641359.

Antibacterial activity and kill kinetics of amoxicillin-clavulanic acid 
combinations against Escherichia coli and Klebsiella aerogenes.

Fuglesang JE, Bergan T.

Combinations of amoxicillin and clavulanic acid were tested against 11 
Escherichia coli strains and five Klebsiella aerogenes strains. Apart from one 
E. coli, the strains were highly resistant to amoxicillin due to beta-lactamase 
production. Synergy was demonstrated in all strains by agar dilution. Synergy 
was detected against the beta-lactamase-producing strains under simulated in 
vivo conditions with constantly decreasing concentrations simulating in vivo 
pharmacokinetics. The correlation between antibacterial activity determined by 
minimum inhibitory concentrations and bacterial kill kinetics in the in vivo 
simulation model was acceptable. A higher bacterial kill rate was observed when 
the antibiotic dosage was increased beyond the minimum concentration where an 
antibacterial effect was seen; this was not demonstrable by traditional agar 
dilution tests. In combination, a greater relative amount of amoxicillin 
compared to clavulanic acid allows a reduction in the total amount of 
antimicrobial agents with the same degree of antibacterial activity.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01641359
PMID: 6365790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. J Nepal Health Res Counc. 2021 Dec 15;19(3):613-617. doi: 
10.33314/jnhrc.v19i3.3816.

Antibiotics Self-Medication Practice Among Medical Students.

Shrestha D(1), Barakoti A(2), Shakya Gurung R(1), Paudel R(1), Sapkota J(2), Deo 
S(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Nepal Medical College Teaching Hospital, 
Attarkhel, Kathmandu, Nepal.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Nepal Medical College Teaching Hospital, 
Attarkhel, Kathmandu, Nepal.
(3)Madan Bhandari Academy of Health Sciences, Hetauda, Nepal.

BACKGROUND: Self-medication of antibiotics is common among healthcare students 
due to their knowledge of pharmacology of antibiotics, which produces a false 
sense of confidence in self-diagnosis of disease conditions. Hence, this study 
was conducted to assess the practice of self-medication with antibiotics among 
medical students.
METHODS: This questionnaire based descriptive, cross-sectional study was 
conducted in Nepal Medical College Teaching Hospital, Attarkhel, Kathmandu from 
September 2019 to February 2020 on the Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of 
Surgery students.
RESULTS: Out of 405 students, 214 (52.8%) students had practiced antibiotics 
self-medication. The most commonly self-medicated antibiotics were azithromycin 
126(58.9%), amoxicillin 67(31.3%), metronidazole 35(16.4%) and ciprofloxacin 
14(6.5%) that were most commonly used for sore throat 93(43.5%), fever 
82(38.3%), common cold 59(27.6%) and cough 43(20.1%).The common sources for 
self-medication were previous prescription 66 (30.8%), followed by own 
pharmacological knowledge 58 (27.1%). The most common reasons for practicing 
antibiotics self-medication were stated as previous experience of same illness 
165 (77.1%), doctor's advice not deemed necessary 21 (9.8%) and save time 14 
(6.6%). Large number of students agreed that antibiotics self-medication was not 
an acceptable practice 308(76.1%) and can lead to antimicrobial resistance 
363(89.6%).
CONCLUSIONS: More than half of the respondent medical students had practiced 
antibiotics self-medication. Sore throat was the commonest cause for it while 
the most commonly self-medicated antibiotic was azithromycin. Self-medication 
with antibiotics in medical students is concerning because they are future 
prescribers of antibiotics; who are supposed to promote rational use of 
antibiotics.

DOI: 10.33314/jnhrc.v19i3.3816
PMID: 35140440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Scand J Gastroenterol. 1995 Nov;30(11):1053-7. doi: 10.3109/00365529509101606.

Lansoprazole capsules and amoxicillin oral suspension in the treatment of peptic 
ulcer disease.

Hatlebakk JG(1), Nesje LB, Hausken T, Bang CJ, Berstad A.

Author information:
(1)Medical Dept. A, Haukeland Hospital, University of Bergen, Norway.

BACKGROUND: Lansoprazole is a potent antisecretory drug also possessing 
anti-Helicobacter pylori activity in vitro. It is a candidate drug for 
combination regimens with antibiotics for treating H. pylori infections.
METHODS: In a semiblind study, 65 patients with duodenal and/or gastric ulcer 
and pathologic 14C urea breath test results were treated with either 60 mg 
lansoprazole every morning only for 14 days or combined with 500 mg amoxicillin 
oral suspension four times daily between meals, given for 11 days. Endoscopy and 
breath test were repeated after 6 weeks and 6 months. Patients with unhealed 
ulcers were withdrawn.
RESULTS: Eradication of H. pylori infection was attained in 46% of patients 
receiving lansoprazole and amoxicillin but in no patient receiving lansoprazole 
alone. Ulcers healed significantly more often in those who were H. 
pylori-negative (18 of 19 (95%)) than in those who were H. pylori-positive (20 
of 41 (49%)). Adverse events, particularly stomatitis/sore throat and diarrhea, 
occurred significantly more often when amoxicillin was combined with 
lansoprazole.
CONCLUSIONS: Lansoprazole eradicated H. pylori infection only when combined with 
amoxicillin. Eradication rates in this study are hardly acceptable, and further 
studies are necessary to define optimal doses and duration of treatment. Using 
amoxicillin as an oral suspension may not be of any substantial benefit and may 
cause stomatitis and sore throat.

DOI: 10.3109/00365529509101606
PMID: 8578163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Int J Pediatr Otorhinolaryngol. 2001 Apr 6;58(1):47-51. doi: 
10.1016/s0165-5876(00)00465-1.

Comparison of amoxicillin and azithromycin in the prevention of recurrent acute 
otitis media.

De Diego JI(1), Prim MP, Alfonso C, Sastre N, Rabanal I, Gavilan J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, La Paz Hospital, Autonomous University, 
Madrid, Spain. jidediegompprim@retemail.es

OBJECTIVE: To compare the outcome of patients with recurrent acute otitis media 
(AOM) treated either with amoxicillin or with azithromycin.
METHODS: This prospective, controlled, and randomized study, compares the 
outcome of 71 patients with recurrent AOM treated with azithromycin (31 
patients) or amoxicillin (40 patients) for the prevention of AOM. azithromycin 
was given at a dose of 10 mg/kg once a week, whereas amoxicillin was 
administered daily as a single intake of one third of the therapeutic dosage (20 
mg/kg per day). All treatments were prescribed for 3 months. Both groups were 
homogeneous with regard to the currently accepted predisposing factors of 
recurrent AOM. Mean age of children was 35.3 months, and average follow-up was 
11.5 months. The treatment was considered effective when the number of episodes 
of AOM dropped to less than 50% after the prophylaxis.
RESULTS: Patients in the azithromycin group had a clinical response to 
prophylaxis (80.6%) comparable to those treated with amoxicillin (89.5%) 
(P=0.300). The incidence of adverse effects was similar in both groups.
CONCLUSION: According to these results, a prophylaxis with azithromycin is as 
useful as amoxicillin to prevent recurrent AOM.

DOI: 10.1016/s0165-5876(00)00465-1
PMID: 11249979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Helicobacter. 2007 Aug;12(4):275-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1523-5378.2007.00518.x.

A report card to grade Helicobacter pylori therapy.

Graham DY, Lu H, Yamaoka Y.

Helicobacter pylori causes a serious bacterial infectious disease, and the 
expectations of therapy should reflect this fact. Increasing antibiotic 
resistance, especially to clarithromycin, has significantly undermined the 
effectiveness of legacy triple therapy consisting of a proton pump inhibitor, 
clarithromycin, and amoxicillin. Current cure rates are consistently below 80% 
intention-to-treat, the accepted threshold separating acceptable from 
unacceptable treatment results. Grading clinical studies into effectiveness 
categories using prespecified criteria would allow clinicians to objectively 
identify and compare regimens. We offer a therapy report card similar to that 
used to grade the performance of school children. The intention-to-treat cure 
rate categories are: F or unacceptable ( 80%), D or poor (81-84%), C or fair 
(85-89%), B or good (90-95%), and A or excellent (95-100%). The category of 
"excellent" is based on the cure rates expected with other prevalent bacterial 
infectious diseases. We propose that only therapies that score "excellent" 
(grade = A) should be prescribed. Regimens scoring as B or "good" can be used if 
"excellent" results are not obtainable. In most regions legacy triple therapy 
should be abandoned as unacceptable. Quadruple therapy and sequential therapy 
are reasonable alternatives for initial therapy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1523-5378.2007.00518.x
PMID: 17669098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. J Feline Med Surg. 2014 Feb;16(2):177-9. doi: 10.1177/1098612X13498248. Epub 
2013 Jul 24.

Cloprostenol treatment of feline open-cervix pyometra.

García Mitacek MC(1), Stornelli MC, Tittarelli CM, Nuñez Favre R, de la Sota RL, 
Stornelli MA.

Author information:
(1)1Laboratory and Animal Reproduction Service, Faculty of Veterinary Science, 
National University of La Plata, Argentina.

Treatment with cloprostenol, a prostaglandin synthetic analogue, was evaluated 
in five queens with open-cervix pyometra. Cloprostenol was administered (5 μg/kg 
body weight SC) on 3 consecutive days and amoxicillin (20 mg/kg body weight IM) 
on 7 consecutive days. Transient post-injection reactions caused by cloprostenol 
administration included diarrhea, vomiting and vocalizations. Reactions began as 
quickly as 10 mins after cloprostenol administration and lasted as long as 30 
mins. All queens improved clinically after cloprostenol treatment and remained 
healthy until the end of the study, 1 year after treatment. All queens resumed 
normal estrous cycles without further treatment and two (40%) delivered a normal 
litter. In conclusion, use of cloprostenol is an acceptable treatment for 
open-cervix pyometra in queens.

DOI: 10.1177/1098612X13498248
PMCID: PMC11383130
PMID: 23884637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors do not have any potential conflicts 
of interest to declare.


82. Health Technol Assess. 2023 Jun;27(9):1-90. doi: 10.3310/DGBV3199.

Antibiotics for lower respiratory tract infection in children presenting in 
primary care: ARTIC-PC RCT.

Little P(1), Francis NA(1), Stuart B(1), O'Reilly G(1), Thompson N(1), Becque 
T(1), Hay AD(2), Wang K(3), Sharland M(4), Harnden A(3), Yao G(5), Raftery J(1), 
Zhu S(1), Little J(1), Hookham C(1), Rowley K(2), Euden J(6), Harman K(1), 
Coenen S(7), Read RC(8), Woods C(1), Butler CC(3), Faust SN(8), Leydon G(1), Wan 
M(9), Hood K(6), Whitehurst J(10), Richards-Hall S(11), Smith P(12), Thomas 
M(1), Moore M(1), Verheij T(1).

Author information:
(1)Primary Care Population Sciences and Medical Education Unit, University of 
Southampton, Southampton, UK.
(2)Centre for Academic Primary Care, Bristol Medical School, Population Health 
Sciences, University of Bristol, Bristol, UK.
(3)Nuffield Department of Primary Care Health Sciences, University of Oxford, 
Oxford, UK.
(4)Institute of Infection and Immunity, St George's University, London, UK.
(5)Biostatistics Research Group, Department of Health Sciences, College of Life 
Sciences, University of Leicester, Leicester, UK.
(6)Centre for Trials Research, College of Biomedical and Life Sciences, Cardiff 
University, Cardiff, UK.
(7)Department of Family Medicine & Population Health and Vaccine & Infectious 
Disease Institute, University of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium.
(8)National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR) Southampton Clinical 
Research Facility and Biomedical Research Centre, University Hospital 
Southampton NHS Foundation Trust, Southampton, UK.
(9)Evelina Pharmacy, Guy's and St Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK.
(10)National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR) Applied Research 
Collaboration West Midlands, Coventry, UK.
(11)Southampton Primary Care Research Centre, Primary Care Population Sciences 
and Medical Education Unit, University of Southampton, Southampton, UK.
(12)Southampton Statistical Sciences Research Institute, University of 
Southampton, Southampton, UK.

BACKGROUND: Antimicrobial resistance is a global health threat. Antibiotics are 
commonly prescribed for children with uncomplicated lower respiratory tract 
infections, but there is little randomised evidence to support the effectiveness 
of antibiotics in treating these infections, either overall or relating to key 
clinical subgroups in which antibiotic prescribing is common (chest signs; 
fever; physician rating of unwell; sputum/rattly chest; shortness of breath).
OBJECTIVES: To estimate the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
amoxicillin for uncomplicated lower respiratory tract infections in children 
both overall and in clinical subgroups.
DESIGN: Placebo-controlled trial with qualitative, observational and 
cost-effectiveness studies.
SETTING: UK general practices.
PARTICIPANTS: Children aged 1-12 years with acute uncomplicated lower 
respiratory tract infections.
OUTCOMES: The primary outcome was the duration in days of symptoms rated 
moderately bad or worse (measured using a validated diary). Secondary outcomes 
were symptom severity on days 2-4 (0 = no problem to 6 = as bad as it could be); 
symptom duration until very little/no problem; reconsultations for new or 
worsening symptoms; complications; side effects; and resource use.
METHODS: Children were randomised to receive 50 mg/kg/day of oral amoxicillin in 
divided doses for 7 days, or placebo using pre-prepared packs, using 
computer-generated random numbers by an independent statistician. Children who 
were not randomised could participate in a parallel observational study. 
Semistructured telephone interviews explored the views of 16 parents and 14 
clinicians, and the data were analysed using thematic analysis. Throat swabs 
were analysed using multiplex polymerase chain reaction.
RESULTS: A total of 432 children were randomised (antibiotics, n = 221; placebo, 
n = 211). The primary analysis imputed missing data for 115 children. The 
duration of moderately bad symptoms was similar in the antibiotic and placebo 
groups overall (median of 5 and 6 days, respectively; hazard ratio 1.13, 95% 
confidence interval 0.90 to 1.42), with similar results for subgroups, and when 
including antibiotic prescription data from the 326 children in the 
observational study. Reconsultations for new or worsening symptoms (29.7% and 
38.2%, respectively; risk ratio 0.80, 95% confidence interval 0.58 to 1.05), 
illness progression requiring hospital assessment or admission (2.4% vs. 2.0%) 
and side effects (38% vs. 34%) were similar in the two groups. Complete-case (n 
= 317) and per-protocol (n = 185) analyses were similar, and the presence of 
bacteria did not mediate antibiotic effectiveness. NHS costs per child were 
slightly higher (antibiotics, £29; placebo, £26), with no difference in non-NHS 
costs (antibiotics, £33; placebo, £33). A model predicting complications (with 
seven variables: baseline severity, difference in respiratory rate from normal 
for age, duration of prior illness, oxygen saturation, sputum/rattly chest, 
passing urine less often, and diarrhoea) had good discrimination (bootstrapped 
area under the receiver operator curve 0.83) and calibration. Parents found it 
difficult to interpret symptoms and signs, used the sounds of the child's cough 
to judge the severity of illness, and commonly consulted to receive a clinical 
examination and reassurance. Parents acknowledged that antibiotics should be 
used only when 'necessary', and clinicians noted a reduction in parents' 
expectations for antibiotics.
LIMITATIONS: The study was underpowered to detect small benefits in key 
subgroups.
CONCLUSION: Amoxicillin for uncomplicated lower respiratory tract infections in 
children is unlikely to be clinically effective or to reduce health or societal 
costs. Parents need better access to information, as well as clear communication 
about the self-management of their child's illness and safety-netting.
FUTURE WORK: The data can be incorporated in the Cochrane review and individual 
patient data meta-analysis.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: This trial is registered as ISRCTN79914298.
FUNDING: This project was funded by the National Institute for Health and Care 
Research (NIHR) Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in 
full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 27, No. 9. See the NIHR Journals 
Library website for further project information.

Plain Language Summary: Children are commonly prescribed antibiotics for chest 
infections, but such infections are becoming resistant to antibiotics, and it is 
not clear if antibiotics work in treating them. A total of 432 children who saw 
their general practitioner with a chest infection were given either an 
antibiotic (amoxicillin) or a placebo (no antibiotic) for 7 days. Symptom 
diaries documented the infection’s duration and its side effects. Children not 
in the placebo study were able to participate in another study that documented 
the same outcomes (an ‘observational study’). We interviewed parents, doctors 
and nurses about their observations and concerns. Our patient and public 
involvement and engagement work with parents indicated that a 3-day symptom 
reduction was required to justify giving antibiotics. After seeing the doctor, 
parents whose children received antibiotics rated infective symptoms as 
moderately bad or worse for 5 days, and parents whose children received the 
placebo rated these for 6 days. Side effects and complications were similar in 
the two groups. Findings were similar when including the results of the 
observational study, and for children in whose chest the doctor could hear 
wheeze or rattles; who had fever; who were rated by the doctor as more unwell, 
who were short of breath, or who had had bacteria detected in the throat. The 
costs to the NHS per child were similar (antibiotics, £29; placebo, £26), and 
the wider costs to society were the same (antibiotics, £33; placebo, £33). 
Parents found it difficult to interpret their child’s symptoms, and commonly 
used the sound of the cough to judge severity. Parents commonly consulted to 
receive an examination and reassurance, and accepted that antibiotics should be 
used only when ‘necessary’. Clinicians noted a reduction in parents’ 
expectations for antibiotics. Amoxicillin for chest infections in children is 
unlikely to be effective. General practitioners should support parents to 
self-manage at home and give clear communication about when and how to seek 
medical help if they continue to be concerned.

DOI: 10.3310/DGBV3199
PMCID: PMC10350739
PMID: 37436003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2016 Dec 8;12(12):CD006978. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD006978.pub2.

Antibiotics for the neurological complications of Lyme disease.

Cadavid D(1), Auwaerter PG(2), Rumbaugh J(3), Gelderblom H(4).

Author information:
(1)Fulcrum Therapeutics, One Kendall Square, Building 700, Suite B7102, 
Cambridge, MA, USA, 02139.
(2)Sherrilyn and Ken Fisher Center for Environmental Infectious Diseases, John 
Hopkins University School of Medicine, 725 N. Wolfe Street, PTCB - Rm 231, 
Baltimore, MD, USA, 21287.
(3)Watson Clinic, 1600 Lakeland Hills Blvd, Lakeland, FL, USA, 33805.
(4)National Association of Statutory Health Insurance Funds, Berlin, Germany.

Update of
    doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD006978.

BACKGROUND: Various central nervous system-penetrant antibiotics are 
bactericidal in vitro and in vivo against the causative agent of Lyme 
neuroborreliosis (LNB), Borrelia burgdorferi. These antibiotics are routinely 
used clinically to treat LNB, but their relative efficacy is not clear.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the effects of antibiotics for the treatment of LNB.
SEARCH METHODS: On 25 October 2016 we searched the Cochrane Neuromuscular 
Specialised Register, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials 
(CENTRAL), MEDLINE, and Embase. We searched clinical trial registers on 26 
October 2016. We reviewed the bibliographies of the randomized trials identified 
and contacted the authors and known experts in the field to identify additional 
published or unpublished data. There were no language restrictions when 
searching for studies.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomized clinical trials of antibiotic treatment of LNB in 
adults and children that compared any antibiotic treatment, including 
combinations of treatments, versus any other treatment, placebo, or no 
treatment. We excluded studies of entities considered as post-Lyme syndrome.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: We used standard methodological procedures 
expected by Cochrane.
MAIN RESULTS: We identified seven randomized studies involving 450 European 
participants with LNB for inclusion in this systematic review. We found no 
trials conducted in the United States. Marked heterogeneity among these studies 
prevented meta-analysis. None of the studies included a placebo control on the 
initial antibiotic treatment, and only one was blinded. None were delayed-start 
studies. All were active comparator studies, and most were not adequately 
powered for non-inferiority comparison. The trials investigated four 
antibiotics: penicillin G and ceftriaxone in four studies, doxycycline in three 
studies, and cefotaxime in two studies. One study tested a three-month course of 
oral amoxicillin versus placebo following initial treatment with intravenous 
ceftriaxone. One study was limited to children. The trials measured efficacy 
using heterogeneous physician- or patient-reported outcomes, or both. In some 
cases cerebrospinal fluid analysis was included as an indirect biomarker of 
disease and outcome. None of the studies reported on our proposed primary 
outcome, 'Improvement in a measure of overall disability in the long term (three 
or more months).' None of the trials revealed any between-group differences in 
symptom resolution in response to active treatment. In general, treatment was 
tolerated well. The quality of adverse event reporting, however, was low.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: There is mostly low- to very low-quality clinical evidence 
from a limited number of mostly small, heterogeneous trials with diverse outcome 
measures, comparing the relative efficacy of central nervous system-penetrant 
antibiotics for the treatment of LNB. The few existing randomized studies have 
limited power and lack consistent and well-defined entry criteria and efficacy 
endpoints. It is not possible to draw firm conclusions on the relative efficacy 
of accepted antibiotic drug regimens for the treatment of LNB. The majority of 
people are reported to have good outcomes, and symptoms resolve by 12 months 
regardless of the antibiotic used. A minority of participants did not improve 
sufficiently, and some were retreated. These randomized studies provide some 
evidence that doxycycline, penicillin G, ceftriaxone, and cefotaxime are 
efficacious in the treatment of European LNB. No evidence of additional efficacy 
was observed when, in one study, an initial antibiotic treatment with 
intravenous ceftriaxone was followed by additional longer treatment with oral 
amoxicillin. There is a lack of evidence identified through our high-quality 
search strategy on the efficacy of antibiotics for treatment of LNB in the 
United States.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD006978.pub2
PMCID: PMC6463975
PMID: 27931077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: D Cadavid was a full‐time paid employee of 
Biogen during most of the preparatory time for this review. He is currently a 
full‐time employee of Fulcrum Therapeutics. Neither Biogen nor Fulcrum 
Therapeutics is involved in research on LNB. D Cadavid's work on this review is 
not related to his employment with Biogen or Fulcrum Therapeutics. PG Auwaerter 
has served as a medical‐legal expert witness regarding Lyme disease; has been 
reimbursed for travel expenses related to an update of the Lyme Disease 
Guideline by the Infectious Diseases Society of America, the American Academy of 
Neurology, and the American College of Rheumatology (IDSA/AAN/ACR); and has been 
given honoraria for CME courses regarding Lyme disease. J Rumbaugh has been 
reimbursed for travel expenses related to an update of the Lyme Disease 
Guideline (IDSA/AAN/ACR). H Gelderblom: none known.


84. Gut Liver. 2022 Jan 15;16(1):8-18. doi: 10.5009/gnl20330.

Treatment of Refractory Helicobacter pylori Infection-Tailored or Empirical 
Therapy.

Liou JM(1)(2)(3), Lee YC(1)(2)(4), Wu MS(1)(2); Taiwan Gastrointestinal Disease 
and Helicobacter Consortium.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine, 
National Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, National Taiwan University College of 
Medicine, Taipei, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Medicine, National Taiwan University Cancer Center, Taipei, 
Taiwan.
(4)Department of Medical Research, National Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei, 
Taiwan.

The treatment of refractory Helicobacter pylori remains challenging in clinical 
practice. Factors that should be considered in the treatment of refractory H. 
pylori infection include treatment length, dosage of antibiotics and proton pump 
inhibitors (PPIs), number of drugs, and the selection of appropriate 
antibiotics. Extending the treatment length of triple therapy and non-bismuth 
quadruple therapy to 14 days may increase the eradication rate compared with a 
shorter period (7 or 10 days). The use of a higher dose of PPIs or vonoprazan 
may also increase the efficacy of triple therapy. Four-drug therapy, including 
bismuth or non-bismuth quadruple therapies, usually achieve higher eradication 
rates than triple therapy. The addition of bismuth or metronidazole to 
levofloxacin-amoxicillin-PPI therapy may also increase the eradication rate. 
Therefore, four-drug therapies containing a higher dose of PPIs for 14 days are 
recommended in the third-line treatment setting for refractory H. pylori 
infection. The selection of appropriate antibiotics may be guided by 
susceptibility testing or empirically by medication history. Tailored therapy 
guided by susceptibility testing or genotypic resistance is recommended whenever 
possible. However, properly designed empirical therapy based on prior medication 
history (i.e., avoid the reuse of clarithromycin or levofloxacin empirically) is 
an acceptable alternative to tailored therapy after considering accessibility, 
cost, and the preference of the patient.

DOI: 10.5009/gnl20330
PMCID: PMC8761919
PMID: 33782215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST No potential conflict of 
interest relevant to this article was reported.


85. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2009 Feb;7(2):145-8. doi: 10.1016/j.cgh.2008.10.024. 
Epub 2008 Oct 30.

Efficient identification and evaluation of effective Helicobacter pylori 
therapies.

Graham DY(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Michael E. DeBakey Veterans Affairs Medical Center, 
Houston, Texas 77030, USA. dgraham@bcm.tmc.edu

Annually hundreds if not thousands of patients fail empiric H. pylori 
eradication therapy. Failure occurs in part because routine post treatment 
testing, which provides an early warning of increasing antibiotic resistance, is 
not universally done and physicians are generally unaware that cure rates with 
legacy triple therapy (a proton-pump inhibitor, amoxicillin, and clarithromycin) 
in most places has fallen below 80%. We propose first, institution of routine 
post eradication testing and second, abandonment of the "better than another 
therapy" approach to separating acceptable from unacceptable therapies. Instead, 
we propose using results-based outcomes (ie, >95% cure rates). H. pylori should 
be evaluated as other infectious diseases (ie, few would compare a new 
antibiotic for pneumonia with the previous best choice whose effectiveness was 
now impaired because of resistance). Randomized comparisons should be restricted 
to studies designed to improve (eg, simplify or reduce costs) high cure rate 
therapies while maintaining efficacy. We also discuss potential ethical issues 
such as those including known or suspected low cure rate therapies. Legacy 
therapies cannot be identified as "approved" or "recommended" even if both 
statements were true. Instead patients and ethics boards must receive "full 
disclosures" both before and during studies that include all that might affect a 
patient's decision to enter or to continue. Finally, we provides advice 
regarding trial design using "best shot" pilot studies to efficiently identify 
tentative effective regimens which are then confirmed in randomized trials all 
the while minimizing patient risks and drug exposure.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2008.10.024
PMCID: PMC2838433
PMID: 19026766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Rev Esp Enferm Dig. 2021 Oct;113(10). doi: 10.17235/reed.2021.8358/2021.

V Spanish Consensus Conference on Helicobacter pylori infection treatment.

Gisbert JP(1), Alcedo J(2), Amador J(3), Bujanda L(4), Calvet X(5), 
Castro-Fernández M(6), Fernández-Salazar L(7), Gené E(8), Lanas Á(9), Lucendo 
AJ(10), Molina-Infante J(11), Nyssen OP(12), Pérez-Aisa A(13), Puig I(14).

Author information:
(1)Aparato Digestivo, Hospital de la Princesa, España.
(2)Aparato Digestivo, Hospital Universitario Miguel Servet, Instituto de 
Investigación Sanitaria de Aragón (IIS Aragón).
(3)Medicina de Familia, Centro de Salud Los Ángeles. Dirección Asistencial 
Centro. SERMAS.
(4)Aparato Digestivo, Hospital Donostia/Instituto Biodonostia, Universidad del 
País Vasco UPV/EHU. CIBEREHD.
(5)Aparato Digestivo, Hospital Parc Taulí. Universitat Autónoma de Barcelona. 
CIBEREHD.
(6)Aparato Digestivo, Hospital Universitario de Valme. CIBEREHD.
(7)Aparato Digestivo, Hospital Clínico Universitario de Valladolid, Gerencia 
Regional de Salud.
(8)Urgencias, Hospital Parc Taulí Sabadell.
(9)Aparato Digestivo, Hospital Clínico Universitario de Zaragoza.
(10)Aparato Digestivo, Hospital General de Tomelloso. CIBEREHD.
(11)Aparato Digestivo, Hospital Universitario de Cáceres.
(12)Aparato Digestivo, Hospital de la Princesa.
(13)Aparato Digestivo, Agencia Sanitaria Costa del Sol.
(14)Aparato Digestivo, Althaia Xarxa Assistencial Universitària de Manresa.

Helicobacter pylori infection is very common in the Spanish population and 
represents the main cause of chronic gastritis, peptic ulcer, and gastric 
cancer. The last iteration of Spanish consensus guidelines on H. pylori 
infection was conducted in 2016. Recent changes in therapeutic schemes along 
with increasing supporting evidence were key for developing the V Spanish 
Consensus Conference (May 2021). Fourteen experts performed a systematic review 
of the scientific evidence and developed a series of recommendations that were 
subjected to an anonymous Delphi process of iterative voting. Scientific 
evidence and the strength of the recommendation were classified using GRADE 
guidelines. An eradication therapy, when prescribed empirically, is considered 
acceptable when it reliably achieves, or preferably surpass, 90% cure rates. 
Currently, only quadruple therapies (with or without bismuth) and generally 
lasting 14 days, accomplish this goal in first- and second-line therapies. A 
non-bismuth quadruple concomitant regimen (proton pump inhibitor, 
clarithromycin, amoxicillin, and metronidazole) or a quadruple bismuth-based 
combination (proton pump inhibitor, bismuth, tetracycline, and metronidazole), 
are recommended as first-line regimens. Rescue therapies after eradication 
failure and management of H. pylori infection in peptic ulcer disease were also 
reviewed.

DOI: 10.17235/reed.2021.8358/2021
PMID: 34607441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. World J Gastroenterol. 2011 Sep 21;17(35):3971-5. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v17.i35.3971.

A new look at anti-Helicobacter pylori therapy.

Chuah SK(1), Tsay FW, Hsu PI, Wu DC.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Kaohsiung Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, College 
of Medicine, Chang Gung University, 833 Kaohsiung, Taiwan.

With the rising prevalence of antimicrobial resistance, the treatment success of 
standard triple therapy has recently declined to unacceptable levels (i.e., 80% 
or less) in most countries. Therefore, several treatment regimens have emerged 
to cure Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection. Novel first-line anti-H. 
pylori therapies in 2011 include sequential therapy, concomitant quadruple 
therapy, hybrid (dual-concomitant) therapy and bismuth-containing quadruple 
therapy. After the failure of standard triple therapy, a bismuth-containing 
quadruple therapy comprising a proton pump inhibitor (PPI), bismuth, 
tetracycline and metronidazole can be employed as rescue treatment. Recently, 
triple therapy combining a PPI, levofloxacin and amoxicillin has been proposed 
as an alternative to the standard rescue therapy. This salvage regimen can 
achieve a higher eradication rate than bismuth-containing quadruple therapy in 
some regions and has less adverse effects. The best second-line therapy for 
patients who fail to eradicate H. pylori with first-line therapies containing 
clarithromycin, amoxicillin and metronidazole is unclear. However, a 
levofloxacin-based triple therapy is an accepted rescue treatment. Most 
guidelines suggest that patients requiring third-line therapy should be referred 
to a medical center and treated according to the antibiotic susceptibility test. 
Nonetheless, an empirical therapy (such as levofloxacin-based or 
furazolidone-based therapies) can be employed to terminate H. pylori infection 
if antimicrobial sensitivity data are unavailable.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v17.i35.3971
PMCID: PMC3199554
PMID: 22046084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. United European Gastroenterol J. 2015 Feb;3(1):95-6. doi: 
10.1177/2050640614560787.

Efficacy of reduced-dose regimen of a capsule containing bismuth subcitrate, 
metronidazole, and tetracycline given with amoxicillin and esomeprazole in the 
treatment of Helicobacter Pylori infection.

Harb AH(1), El Reda ZD(1), Sarkis FS(1), Chaar HF(1), Sharara AI(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Internal Medicine, American 
University of Beirut Medical Center, Beirut, Lebanon.

It is well known that triple therapy for Helicobacter pylori is losing efficacy 
worldwide. A regimen containing proton pump inhibitor and multiple-dose capsules 
of bismuth, metronidazole, and tetracycline has proven efficacy. In addition, a 
literature review on dosage of previous regimens shows that half-dose 
clarithromycin-based regimens are equally effective to full-dose regimens. 
However, the applicability of dose reduction to bismuth-based therapy is 
unknown. This communication shows that a reduced-dose bismuth-based regimen 
fails to achieve acceptable eradication rates.

DOI: 10.1177/2050640614560787
PMCID: PMC4315687
PMID: 25653863


89. AAPS PharmSciTech. 2014 Oct;15(5):1070-5. doi: 10.1208/s12249-014-0133-8. Epub 
2014 May 22.

Challenges and opportunities to use biowaivers to compare generics in China.

Zuo J(1), Gao Y, Bou-Chacra N, Löbenberg R.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Alberta, 
Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.

Biowaivers for class I drugs according to the biopharmaceutics classification 
system (BCS) were first introduced in 2000. The in vitro equivalence can be used 
to document bioequivalence between products. This study compared the in vitro 
dissolution behavior of two BCS class I drugs, amoxicillin and metronidazole, 
which are sold in China. Identifying a reference product on the Chinese domestic 
market was impossible. Three 250-mg and two 500-mg amoxicillin capsules and four 
metronidazole tablet products were tested. None of the amoxicillin products and 
three of the four metronidazole tablets were found to be equivalent to each 
other when the same strengths were compared. The bioequivalence of products that 
fail the in vitro test can be established via in vivo clinical studies which are 
expensive and time consuming. Establishing nationally or globally accepted 
reference products may provide regulatory agencies with an efficient mechanism 
approving high quality generics.

DOI: 10.1208/s12249-014-0133-8
PMCID: PMC4179670
PMID: 24848759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Paediatr Drugs. 2003;5(6):363-72. doi: 10.2165/00128072-200305060-00002.

Diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of Lyme disease in children.

Eppes SC(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Pediatrics, A.I. duPont 
Hospital for Children, Wilmington, Delaware 19899, USA.

The approaches to diagnosing and treating Lyme disease (LD) have been improved 
and refined as a result of basic and clinical research, and considerable 
practical experience. In addition, there have been recent studies that have 
allowed improvements in the ability to prevent infection with Borrelia 
burgdorferi. This paper will review the relevant literature and address recent 
developments in the diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of LD. Issues 
specifically related to the management of children will be identified. 
Controversies regarding treatment approaches will be examined in some detail. 
Understanding the clinical manifestations, or stage, of LD is crucial when 
approaching both diagnosis and treatment. Early localized disease is best 
diagnosed by recognizing the characteristic skin lesion, erythema migrans. Early 
disease will frequently, but not always, be accompanied by a detectable antibody 
response, particularly IgM antibody to the spirochete. Late disease, chiefly 
arthritis, is generally associated with high levels of IgG antibody. Western 
blot technology allows confirmation of enzyme immunoassay results and is 
especially useful when the latter is in the low or equivocal range. Early 
localized disease responds well to oral antibacterial therapy. Early 
disseminated disease, often associated with neurologic findings, may require 
parenteral therapy. The arthritis associated with LD frequently responds to oral 
antibacterials, but some refractory cases may require intravenous therapy, and 
occasionally surgery. Doxycycline is the oral antibacterial of choice, while 
amoxicillin and cefuroxime axetil are alternatives that may be preferred in 
young children. Owing to its long half-life and once daily dose administration, 
intravenous ceftriaxone has become the accepted standard for parenteral therapy. 
Tick avoidance has long been the mainstay for preventing LD. Antibacterial 
prophylaxis, using doxycycline, for tick bites has been shown to be an effective 
approach to prevention, but its relevance to pediatrics is uncertain. Vaccines 
designed to prevent infection have also been developed.

DOI: 10.2165/00128072-200305060-00002
PMID: 12765486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. BMC Pharmacol Toxicol. 2013 Jun 18;14:33. doi: 10.1186/2050-6511-14-33.

Effects of packaging and storage conditions on the quality of 
amoxicillin-clavulanic acid - an analysis of Cambodian samples.

Khan MH(1), Hatanaka K, Sovannarith T, Nivanna N, Casas LC, Yoshida N, Tsuboi H, 
Tanimoto T, Kimura K.

Author information:
(1)Drug Management & Policy, Kanazawa University, Kakuma-machi, Kanazawa, 
Ishikawa 920-1192, Japan. mohiuddin_khn@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: The use of substandard and degraded medicines is a major public 
health problem in developing countries such as Cambodia. A collaborative study 
was conducted to evaluate the quality of amoxicillin-clavulanic acid 
preparations under tropical conditions in a developing country.
METHODS: Amoxicillin-clavulanic acid tablets were obtained from outlets in 
Cambodia. Packaging condition, printed information, and other sources of 
information were examined. The samples were tested for quantity, content 
uniformity, and dissolution. Authenticity was verified with manufacturers and 
regulatory authorities.
RESULTS: A total of 59 samples were collected from 48 medicine outlets. Most 
(93.2%) of the samples were of foreign origin. Using predetermined acceptance 
criteria, 12 samples (20.3%) were non-compliant. Eight (13.6%), 10 (16.9%), and 
20 (33.9%) samples failed quantity, content uniformity, and dissolution tests, 
respectively. Samples that violated our observational acceptance criteria were 
significantly more likely to fail the quality tests (Fisher's exact test, 
p < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Improper packaging and storage conditions may reduce the quality of 
amoxicillin-clavulanic acid preparations at community pharmacies. Strict quality 
control measures are urgently needed to maintain the quality of 
amoxicillin-clavulanic acid in tropical countries.

DOI: 10.1186/2050-6511-14-33
PMCID: PMC3694447
PMID: 23773420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2014 Oct 9;2014(10):CD002109. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD002109.pub4.

Antibiotics for community-acquired pneumonia in adult outpatients.

Pakhale S(1), Mulpuru S, Verheij TJ, Kochen MM, Rohde GG, Bjerre LM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, The Ottawa Hospital, Ottawa Hospital Research 
Institute and the University of Ottawa, 501 Smyth Road, Ottawa, ON, Canada, K1H 
8L6.

Update of
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2009 Oct 07;(4):CD002109. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD002109.pub3.

BACKGROUND: Lower respiratory tract infection (LRTI) is the third leading cause 
of death worldwide and the first leading cause of death in low-income countries. 
Community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) is a common condition that causes a 
significant disease burden for the community, particularly in children younger 
than five years, the elderly and immunocompromised people. Antibiotics are the 
standard treatment for CAP. However, increasing antibiotic use is associated 
with the development of bacterial resistance and side effects for the patient. 
Several studies have been published regarding optimal antibiotic treatment for 
CAP but many of these data address treatments in hospitalised patients. This is 
an update of our 2009 Cochrane Review and addresses antibiotic therapies for CAP 
in outpatient settings.
OBJECTIVES: To compare the efficacy and safety of different antibiotic 
treatments for CAP in participants older than 12 years treated in outpatient 
settings with respect to clinical, radiological and bacteriological outcomes.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched CENTRAL (2014, Issue 1), MEDLINE (January 1966 to 
March week 3, 2014), EMBASE (January 1974 to March 2014), CINAHL (2009 to March 
2014), Web of Science (2009 to March 2014) and LILACS (2009 to March 2014).
SELECTION CRITERIA: We looked for randomised controlled trials (RCTs), fully 
published in peer-reviewed journals, of antibiotics versus placebo as well as 
antibiotics versus another antibiotic for the treatment of CAP in outpatient 
settings in participants older than 12 years of age. However, we did not find 
any studies of antibiotics versus placebo. Therefore, this review includes RCTs 
of one or more antibiotics, which report the diagnostic criteria and describe 
the clinical outcomes considered for inclusion in this review.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors (LMB, TJMV) independently 
assessed study reports in the first publication. In the 2009 update, LMB 
performed study selection, which was checked by TJMV and MMK. In this 2014 
update, two review authors (SP, SM) independently performed and checked study 
selection. We contacted trial authors to resolve any ambiguities in the study 
reports. We compiled and analysed the data. We resolved differences between 
review authors by discussion and consensus.
MAIN RESULTS: We included 11 RCTs in this review update (3352 participants older 
than 12 years with a diagnosis of CAP); 10 RCTs assessed nine antibiotic pairs 
(3321 participants) and one RCT assessed four antibiotics (31 participants) in 
people with CAP. The study quality was generally good, with some differences in 
the extent of the reporting. A variety of clinical, bacteriological and adverse 
events were reported. Overall, there was no significant difference in the 
efficacy of the various antibiotics. Studies evaluating clarithromycin and 
amoxicillin provided only descriptive data regarding the primary outcome. Though 
the majority of adverse events were similar between all antibiotics, nemonoxacin 
demonstrated higher gastrointestinal and nervous system adverse events when 
compared to levofloxacin, while cethromycin demonstrated significantly more 
nervous system side effects, especially dysgeusia, when compared to 
clarithromycin. Similarly, high-dose amoxicillin (1 g three times a day) was 
associated with higher incidence of gastritis and diarrhoea compared to 
clarithromycin, azithromycin and levofloxacin.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Available evidence from recent RCTs is insufficient to 
make new evidence-based recommendations for the choice of antibiotic to be used 
for the treatment of CAP in outpatient settings. Pooling of study data was 
limited by the very low number of studies assessing the same antibiotic pairs. 
Individual study results do not reveal significant differences in efficacy 
between various antibiotics and antibiotic groups. However, two studies did find 
significantly more adverse events with use of cethromycin as compared to 
clarithromycin and nemonoxacin when compared to levofloxacin. Multi-drug 
comparisons using similar administration schedules are needed to provide the 
evidence necessary for practice recommendations. Further studies focusing on 
diagnosis, management, cost-effectiveness and misuse of antibiotics in CAP and 
LRTI are warranted in high-, middle- and low-income countries.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD002109.pub4
PMCID: PMC7078574
PMID: 25300166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Smita Pakhale: no potential conflicts of 
interest to declare.  Sunita Mulpuru: no potential conflicts of interest to 
declare.  Theo JM Verheij: I participated in an RCT on the effects of 
pneumococcal vaccination, funded by Pfizer.  Michael M Kochen: no potential 
conflicts of interest to declare.  Gernot GU Rohde: Dr. Rohde received financial 
benefits for advisory board memberships from Pfizer and consultancy work for 
Novartis and Takeda as well as payments for lectures from Pfizer, Chiesi, 
Astra‐Zeneca, GSK, Novartis and Grünenthal.  Lise M Bjerre: Dr. Bjerre currently 
holds operating foundation grants as principal investigator from the Canadian 
Institutes for Health Research (CIHR) and the Centre for Learning, Research and 
Innovation in Long‐term care (CLRI) of the Ministry of Health of Ontario; she is 
also co‐investigator on other CIHR grants. She has never accepted remuneration, 
gifts or research funds in any form from drug or device manufacturers, or other 
member of the pharmaceutical industry.


93. An Pediatr (Barc). 2011 Nov;75(5):342.e1-13. doi: 10.1016/j.anpedi.2011.07.015. 
Epub 2011 Sep 14.

[Consensus document on the diagnosis and treatment of acute 
tonsillopharyngitis].

[Article in Spanish]

Piñeiro Pérez R(1), Hijano Bandera F, Alvez González F, Fernández Landaluce A, 
Silva Rico JC, Pérez Cánovas C, Calvo Rey C, Cilleruelo Ortega MJ.

Author information:
(1)Sociedad Española de Infectología Pediátrica, España. 
roipineiro@telefonica.net

Acute tonsillopharyngitis is one of the most common childhood diseases. Viruses 
are the most frequent origin. Group A Streptococcus (Streptococcus pyogenes) is 
the main bacterial cause. A culture or a rapid antigen-detection test of a 
throat-swab specimen should only be done on the basis of clinical scores, in 
order to avoid over-diagnosis of bacterial origin and unnecessary antibiotic 
prescription. The objectives of treatment are: the reduction of symptoms, reduce 
the contagious period, and prevent local suppurative and systemic complications. 
Ideally, only confirmed cases should receive antibiotics. If there is no 
possibility to perform a rapid antigen-detection test, or in some cases if the 
result is negative, it is recommended to perform a culture and, if there is high 
suspicious index, to prescribe antibiotics. Penicillin is the treatment of 
choice, although amoxicillin is also accepted as the first option. 
Amoxicillin/clavulanate is not indicated in any case as empirical treatment. 
Macrolides are not a first choice antibiotic, and should be reserved for those 
patients with immediate penicillin allergy reaction or for the treatment of 
streptococcal carriers. It is of primordial importance to adapt the prescribing 
of antibiotics to the scientific evidence.

La faringoamigdalitis aguda (FAA) es una de las enfermedades más comunes en la 
infancia. La etiología más frecuente es vírica. Entre las causas bacterianas, el 
principal agente responsable es Streptococcus pyogenes o estreptococo beta 
hemolítico del grupo A (EbhGA). Las escalas de valoración clínica son una buena 
ayuda para seleccionar a qué niños se deben practicar las técnicas de detección 
rápida de antígeno estreptocócico (TDR) y/o el cultivo de muestras 
faringoamigdalares. Sin su empleo, se tiende al sobrediagnóstico de FAA 
estreptocócica, con la consiguiente prescripción innecesaria de antibióticos, 
muchas veces de amplio espectro. Los objetivos del tratamiento son: acelerar la 
resolución de los síntomas, reducir el tiempo de contagio y prevenir las 
complicaciones supurativas locales y no supurativas. Idealmente, solo deben 
tratarse los casos confirmados. En caso de no disponibilidad de la TDR, o en 
algunos casos, ante un resultado negativo, se recomienda obtener cultivo e 
iniciar tratamiento a la espera de los resultados, solo si la sospecha clínica 
es alta. Los antibióticos de elección para el tratamiento de la FAA 
estreptocócica son penicilina y amoxicilina. Amoxicilina-clavulánico no está 
indicado de forma empírica en la infección aguda. Los macrólidos tampoco son un 
tratamiento de primera elección; su uso debe reservarse para pacientes con 
alergia inmediata a penicilina o como tratamiento erradicador, en los casos 
indicados. Es urgente y prioritario en nuestro país adecuar la prescripción de 
antibióticos a la evidencia científica disponible.

Copyright © 2011 Asociación Española de Pediatría. Published by Elsevier Espana. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anpedi.2011.07.015
PMCID: PMC7105079
PMID: 21920830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. BMC Pediatr. 2012 Jan 1;12:1. doi: 10.1186/1471-2431-12-1.

Experience developing national evidence-based clinical guidelines for childhood 
pneumonia in a low-income setting--making the GRADE?

Agweyu A(1), Opiyo N, English M.

Author information:
(1)Kenya Medical Research Institute - Wellcome Trust Research Programme, 
Nairobi, Kenya. aagweyu@nairobi.kemri-wellcome.org

BACKGROUND: The development of evidence-based clinical practice guidelines has 
gained wide acceptance in high-income countries and reputable international 
organizations. Whereas this approach may be a desirable standard, challenges 
remain in low-income settings with limited capacity and resources for evidence 
synthesis and guideline development. We present our experience using the Grading 
of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) approach for 
the recent revision of the Kenyan pediatric clinical guidelines focusing on 
antibiotic treatment of pneumonia.
METHODS: A team of health professionals, many with minimal prior experience 
conducting systematic reviews, carried out evidence synthesis for structured 
clinical questions. Summaries were compiled and distributed to a panel of 
clinicians, academicians and policy-makers to generate recommendations based on 
best available research evidence and locally-relevant contextual factors.
RESULTS: We reviewed six eligible articles on non-severe and 13 on severe/very 
severe pneumonia. Moderate quality evidence suggesting similar clinical outcomes 
comparing amoxicillin and cotrimoxazole for non-severe pneumonia received a 
strong recommendation against adopting amoxicillin. The panel voted strongly 
against amoxicillin for severe pneumonia over benzyl penicillin despite moderate 
quality evidence suggesting clinical equivalence between the two and additional 
factors favoring amoxicillin. Very low quality evidence suggesting ceftriaxone 
was as effective as the standard benzyl penicillin plus gentamicin for very 
severe pneumonia received a strong recommendation supporting the standard 
treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Although this exercise may have fallen short of the rigorous 
requirements recommended by the developers of GRADE, it was arguably an 
improvement on previous attempts at guideline development in low-income 
countries and offers valuable lessons for future similar exercises where 
resources and locally-generated evidence are scarce.

© 2012 Agweyu et al; licensee BioMed Central Ltd.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2431-12-1
PMCID: PMC3268095
PMID: 22208358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Molecules. 2021 Aug 20;26(16):5047. doi: 10.3390/molecules26165047.

Pharmaceutical Residues in Senior Residences Wastewaters: High Loads, Emerging 
Risks.

Lacorte S(1), Gómez-Canela C(2), Calas-Blanchard C(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Chemistry, IDAEA-CSIC, Jordi Girona 18-26, 08034 
Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain.
(2)Department of Analytical Chemistry and Applied (Chromatography Section), 
School of Engineering, Institut Químic de Sarrià-Universitat Ramon Llull, Via 
Augusta 390, 08017 Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Biocapteurs-Analyses-Environnement, Université de Perpignan Via Domitia, 52 
Av. Paul Alduy, CEDEX, 66860 Perpignan, France.
(4)Laboratoire de Biodiversité et Biotechnologies Microbiennes, USR 3579 
Sorbonne Universités (UPMC) Paris 6 et CNRS Observatoire Océanologique, 66650 
Banyuls-sur-Mer, France.

Senior residences are health-care facilities that are socially-accepted for the 
assistance of elderly people. Since the elderly account for the foremost 
pharmaceutical-consuming age-group, senior residences become a hot-spot for 
pharmaceuticals discharge to the sewage grid. The objectives of the present 
study were to identify the bioactive pharmaceuticals in sewage waters from 
senior residences and to propose an on-site monitoring strategy for their 
control. In this study, we have studied the presence of 43 pharmaceuticals 
highly consumed by the elderly population in six senior residences located in 
Spain, France and Portugal. Wastewater was sampled directly from the water-chest 
in each residence during different times of the day throughout one week. Main 
compounds detected at the high µg L-1 level were analgesic and antipyretic drugs 
such as acetylsalicylic acid, paracetamol, ibuprofen; antibiotics such as 
amoxicillin and sulfamethoxazole; compounds for the treatment of neuropathies as 
gabapentin, trazodone and valsartan; pharmaceuticals for the treatment of 
diabetes (vildagliptin) and anticancer drugs. The daily loads discharged were 
estimated and their fate was evaluated. The final objective of this study is to 
highlight the need to implement at-source waste water treatment procedures in 
senior residences, which have been identified as a point source pollution of 
pharmaceuticals.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules26165047
PMCID: PMC8399164
PMID: 34443636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


96. Ethiop J Health Sci. 2022 Nov;32(6):1221-1230. doi: 10.4314/ejhs.v32i6.20.

Extended-Spectrum Beta-Lactamase and Carbapenem-Resistant Gram-Negative 
Pathogens in Makkah, Saudi Arabia.

Kabrah A(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory Medicine Department, Faculty of Applied Medical Sciences, Umm 
Al-Qura University, Makkah, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.

BACKGROUND: This study aimed to determine the prevalence of 
extended-spectrum-beta-lactamase (ESBL) and carbapenem-resistant gram-negative 
bacteria (GNB) isolated from patients at the King Faisal Hospital in Makkah, 
Saudi Arabia.
METHODS: In this cross-sectional study, a total of 298 patients admitted to the 
intensive care unit for 48 hours and who had a central venous catheter were 
selected using a census sampling method. Only patients with ESBL and 
carbapenem-resistant GNB-isolated organisms (175 patients) were included. The 
susceptibility test of GNB was carried out according to the standard 
recommendations. The identified strains were tested in-vitro against several 
antimicrobial drugs. Statistical analysis was performed using SPSS version 24.
RESULTS: 36(20.6%) of samples were ESBL-producing GNB, whereas 139(79.4%) were 
carbapenem-resistant GNB. The pooled proportional estimates of ESBL-producing 
GNB Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, and other GNB were 44.4%, 41.6%, 
and 14.0%, respectively; the pooled proportional estimates of carbapenem 
resistance GNB Klebsiella pneumoniae, Acinetobacter baumannii 
complex/hemolyticus and other GNB were 82.8%, 10.8%, and 6.4%, respectively. All 
ESBL-producing GNB and carbapenem-resistance GNB were multidrug-resistant 
pathogens. The highest carbapenem resistance GNB 139(100%) was to ampicillin, 
and the lowest 122(87.7%) was to Amoxicillin/clavulanic acid (Amox/clav). All 
ESBL-producing GNB 36 (100%) were resistant to cefotaxime, and 35 (97.2%) were 
resistant to ampicillin, cefuroxime, cefepime, and ceftazidime. Additionally, 
the effective antibiotic against ESBL-producing GNB was imipenem.
CONCLUSION: Antibiotic utilization measures appear to contribute to the control 
of the emergence of multidrug-resistant pathogens such as ESBL and 
carbapenem-resistant GNB. Strict adherence to well-accepted infection control 
guidelines along with caution in using broad-spectrum antimicrobial agents 
represents the best strategy for preventing the emergence and spread of 
multidrug-resistant pathogens.

© 2022 Kabrah A.

DOI: 10.4314/ejhs.v32i6.20
PMCID: PMC9692147
PMID: 36475249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Arch Esp Urol. 2022 Nov;75(9):791-797. doi: 
10.56434/j.arch.esp.urol.20227509.115.

Urinary Tract Infection in Pediatrics: Study of Uropathogens and Their 
Resistance in a Madrid Hospital.

Rosado MR(1), Molina AG(1), Velasco AL(1), Chinchilla GC(1), Lana PV(1), 
Izquierdo EO(1), Vidal LS(2).

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Pediatría, Hospital Universitario Infanta Elena, 28343 Madrid, 
Spain.
(2)Servicio de Microbiología, Hospital Universitario Fundacin Jimenez Diaz, 
28040 Madrid, Spain.

INTRODUCTION: Resistance to antibiotics is a growing problem with repercussions 
on the choice of first-line treatment in urinary tract infection (UTI) in 
childhood.
OBJECTIVES: To know the current pattern of antibiotic susceptibility/resistance 
of the most frequent germs that cause UTI in our healthcare area. Secondary 
objective is to know the evolution of these patterns over time.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A cross-sectional retrospective study of UTI episodes in a 
first-level hospital in two periods: 1st January 2008-31th December 2010 and 1st 
January 2017-31th December 2019 through a review of medical records, recording 
the following variables: Age, sex, fever, hospital admission, uropathy/bladder 
dysfunction, antibiotic prophylaxis.
RESULTS: First period: 174 UTI episodes (156 patients); Second period: 266 UTI 
episodes (218 patients). The most frequently isolated germ was E. coli, but in 
patients with uropathy or bladder dysfunction, the percentage of different germs 
is greater. A significant increase in resistance to amoxicillin/clavulanate 
(from 12.2 to 24%) is observed between both periods, it remains stable and in an 
acceptable range for gentamicin, cotrimoxazole and slightly increases to 
first-generation cephalosporins. In patients with uropathy/bladder dysfunction, 
resistance to all these antibiotics is significantly increased.
CONCLUSIONS: The increased resistance of the most frequent uropathogens in the 
UTI of the pediatric population of our healthcare area to 
amoxicillin/clavulanate makes it unsuitable as empirical therapy. 
First-generation cephalosporins are an adequate alternative in patients without 
risk factors.

DOI: 10.56434/j.arch.esp.urol.20227509.115
PMID: 36472062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Rev Gastroenterol Peru. 2003 Jul-Sep;23(3):177-83.

[Omeprazole, amoxicillin and clarithromycin in the treatment of 
helicobacterpylori, in 7 and 10-day regimens].

[Article in Spanish]

Rodríguez W(1), Pareja Cruz A, Yushimito L, Ramírez Ramos A, Gilman RH, Watanabe 
Yamamoto J, Rodríguez Ulloa C, Mendoza Requena D, Guerra Valencia J, Leey 
Casella J, Chinga Alayo E, Velapatiño B, Valencia T.

Author information:
(1)Hospital Militar Central-Dpto de Gastroenterología.

AIM: The most accepted treatment for infection by Helicobacter pylori is the 
proton pump inhibitor based therapy with two antibiotics. However, there is no 
consensus regarding the duration. The purpose here was to compare eradication 
percentages in the omeprazole+amoxicillin+clarithromycin regimen administered 
during 7 days versus 10 days and confront the results with a previous 14-day* 
experience in Peru.
METHOD: Patients from the Central Military Hospital and Peruvian-Japanese 
Hospital evidencing chronic upper gastrointestinal tract symptoms were 
recruited. We excluded patients with peptic ulcer. Biopsies were taken for 
diagnosis, for urease and PCR tests, culture and coloring with silver. 
Omeprazole+clarithromycin+amoxicillin was used during 7 days versus 10 days. 
Control endoscopy was performed one month after treatment had been completed and 
molecular biology techniques were used to differentiate recurrences from new 
infections. Susceptibility to clarithromycin was assessed.
RESULTS: 36 patients were included in each group. Eradication was the same in 
both groups: 86.1% (31/36). In several patients in whom the bacteria persisted, 
the same initial nucleus was found. In a previous study* using this same regimen 
during 14 days, a 93% eradication was obtained. 91.18% of our samples were 
susceptible to clarithromycin.
CONCLUSIONS: In Peru, the omeprazole+clarithromycin+amoxicillin combination 
gives results higher than 80% in the eradication of infection by Helicobacter 
pylori. The 7 and 10 days regimens eradicated the bacteria in 86% of our 
patients.

PMID: 14532918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Korean J Gastroenterol. 2024 Apr 25;83(4):150-156. doi: 10.4166/kjg.2024.012.

Comparison of the Efficacy of 12-day Concomitant Quadruple Therapy versus 14-day 
High dose Dual Therapy as a First-line H. pylori Eradication Regimen.

Valizadeh Toosi SM(1), Feyzi S(2), Kazemi A(1).

Author information:
(1)Gut and Liver Research Center, Non-communicable Diseases Institute, 
Mazandaran University of Medical Sciences, Sari, Iran.
(2)Medicine faculty, Mazandaran University of Medical Sciences, Sari, Iran.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) is the most prevalent infection 
in the world and is strongly associated with gastric adenocarcinoma, lymphoma 
and gastric or duodenal ulcers. Different regimens have been used for H. pylori 
eradication. We aimed to compare the efficacy of two different regimens as 
first-line H. pylori eradication regimens, in an area with high antibiotic 
resistance.
METHODS: In this RCT, we assigned 223 patients with H. pylori infection, who 
were naïve to treatment. They were randomly divided into two groups to receive 
either 12-day concomitant quadruple therapy (consisting of pantoprazole 40 mg, 
amoxicillin 1 g, clarithromycin 500 mg, and metronidazole 500 mg every 12 hours) 
or 14-day high dose dual therapy (consisting of esomeprazole 40 mg and 
amoxicillin 1 g TDS). H. pylori eradication was assessed eight weeks after the 
end of treatment.
RESULTS: H. pylori eradication rate by PP analysis for 12-day concomitant 
quadruple therapy and 14-day high dose dual therapy were 90.4% and 79.1%, 
respectively (p=0.02). According to ITT analysis, the eradication rates were 
86.2% and 76.3%, respectively (p=0.06). Adverse drug reactions were 12.3% in 
high dose dual therapy and 36.8% in concomitant quadruple therapy (p<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Twelve-day concomitant therapy seems to be an acceptable regimen 
for first-line H. pylori eradication in Iran, a country with a high rate of 
antibiotic resistance. Although, high dose dual therapy did not result in an 
ideal eradication rate, but it had fewer drug side effects than the 12-day 
concomitant regimen.

DOI: 10.4166/kjg.2024.012
PMID: 38659251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Cureus. 2021 May 6;13(5):e14872. doi: 10.7759/cureus.14872.

Helicobacter Pylori Eradication Therapy: Still a Challenge.

Hafeez M(1), Qureshi ZA(1), Khattak AL(2), Saeed F(1), Asghar A(3), Azam K(4), 
Khan MA(5).

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterology, Pak Emirates Military Hospital, Rawalpindi, PAK.
(2)Medicine, Combined Military Hospital, Lahore, PAK.
(3)Gastroenterology, Combined Military Hospital, Lahore, PAK.
(4)Pulmonology, Combined Military Hospital, Lahore, PAK.
(5)Physiology, Army Medical College, Rawalpindi, PAK.

Introduction Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection is prevalent worldwide. 
H. pylori therapies' adverse effects can contribute to noncompliance among 
patients. This study aimed to assess the association between compliance to H. 
pylori eradication therapy and adverse effects using various drug regimens. 
Method We conducted an observational study from September 2017 to February 2020 
in two tertiary care hospitals in patients with dyspeptic symptoms. H. Pylori 
detection was done by histopathological examination of gastric mucosa during 
upper gastrointestinal endoscopy or stool for H. pylori antigen. Patients with 
positive results were randomly assigned one of the nine different regimens 
consisting of a combination of proton pump inhibitors along with at least two 
antibiotics. The antibiotics used in different combinations were amoxicillin, 
clarithromycin, metronidazole, doxycycline, levofloxacin, and bismuth sulfate. 
The treatment groups received standard triple therapy with and without 
probiotics, sequential, concomitant, levofloxacin-based triple therapy, or 
sequential and bismuth-based quadruple treatments. All treatments were given for 
two weeks. At the end of the treatment period, patients were interviewed about 
completing treatment and any adverse effects they may have experienced during 
therapy. Data were analyzed using IBM Statistical Package for the Social 
Sciences (SPSS) Statistics for Windows, Version 22.0 (Armonk, NY: IBM Corp.). 
Results A total of 250 patients were included in the study (62% males, 38% 
females) with a mean age of 37 years ± 13 years (range 12-84 years). Most 
patients completed the treatment regimen (80.4%), and 19.6% did not complete 
treatment because of adverse effects (p<0.005). The levofloxacin-based, 
concomitant, and standard triple regimen with probiotic treatments had the 
highest tolerance (≥85%). Common adverse effects were abdominal and epigastric 
pain (11%), alteration of taste, and diarrhea (6.5%). Conclusion H. pylori 
eradication therapy is always a challenge. Patient compliance to the treatment 
can only be ensured by medicines with fewer adverse effects. In our study, 
levofloxacin-based triple, concomitant, and standard triple regimens with 
probiotics are maximally acceptable treatments.

Copyright © 2021, Hafeez et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.14872
PMCID: PMC8184113
PMID: 34113506

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


101. Pediatr Infect Dis J. 1996 Sep;15(9 Suppl):S24-9. doi: 
10.1097/00006454-199609009-00005.

A multicenter, randomized, open label comparison of azithromycin and 
amoxicillin/clavulanate in acute otitis media among children attending day care 
or school.

Khurana CM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Illinois Masonic Medical Center, Chicago 60657, 
USA.

OBJECTIVE: This multicenter, randomized, open label study compared the efficacy 
and safety of azithromycin and amoxicillin/clavulanate for the treatment of 
acute otitis media among children who were attending a day-care facility or 
school.
METHODS: Eligible children with acute otitis media from 21 US centers were 
randomized to treatment with 10 mg/kg of azithromycin oral suspension on Day 1, 
followed by 5 mg/kg once daily for the next 4 days or approximately 40 mg/kg/day 
of amoxicillin/clavulanate suspension in 3 divided doses for 10 days. Clinical 
efficacy was evaluated on Days 14, 30 and 45. Acceptance and convenience of the 
medications were assessed on Day 14 by parent interviews with a standardized 
questionnaire.
RESULTS: Of the 263 children enrolled in the study, 233 were evaluable at the 
primary evaluation 45 days after the start of treatment. Satisfactory clinical 
response rates (cure, delayed cure and improvement) were 60.5% in patients 
treated with azithromycin and 64.9% in patients treated with 
amoxicillin/clavulanate. Satisfactory clinical response rates at secondary 
evaluations were also comparable: 92.2% vs. 90.0% at Day 14 and 66.7% vs. 72.7% 
at Day 30 in patients treated with azithromycin and amoxicillin/clavulanate, 
respectively. No significant differences in treatment failures, relapses or 
recurrences were noted with either medication. Azithromycin was significantly 
better tolerated and caused fewer treatment-related adverse events (7.2%) than 
amoxicillin/clavulanate (17.1%) (P < 0.001). In response to the interview and 
questionnaire, parents of children treated with azithromycin noted less need for 
special arrangements to give medication (2.0% vs. 14.9%). Children liked the 
taste of azithromycin (89.2%) and did not have to be forced to take the 
medication (2.4%). Parents of children receiving amoxicillin/clavulanate noted 
that 61.8% liked the medication and 19.4% of children had to be forced to take 
it.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates that azithromycin was comparable to 
amoxicillin/clavulanate in achieving satisfactory clinical response rates in 
children with acute otitis media attending day care or school. Azithromycin was 
significantly better tolerated than amoxicillin/ clavulanate. Parents considered 
azithromycin to be significantly more convenient to administer and more 
acceptable to children.

DOI: 10.1097/00006454-199609009-00005
PMID: 8878243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Clin Microbiol Infect. 2020 Dec;26(12):1685.e1-1685.e6. doi: 
10.1016/j.cmi.2020.02.038. Epub 2020 Mar 6.

Area of technical uncertainty for susceptibility testing of 
amoxicillin/clavulanate against Escherichia coli: analysis of automated system, 
Etest and disk diffusion methods compared to the broth microdilution reference.

Soares A(1), Pestel-Caron M(2), Leysour de Rohello F(3), Bourgoin G(3), Boyer 
S(2), Caron F(4).

Author information:
(1)GRAM, EA 2656, Normandie University, Unirouen, Rouen, France; Microbiology 
Department, Rouen University Hospital, Rouen, France. Electronic address: 
anais.so@free.fr.
(2)GRAM, EA 2656, Normandie University, Unirouen, Rouen, France; Microbiology 
Department, Rouen University Hospital, Rouen, France.
(3)Microbiology Department, Rouen University Hospital, Rouen, France.
(4)GRAM, EA 2656, Normandie University, Unirouen, Rouen, France; Infectious 
Diseases Department, Rouen University Hospital, Rouen, France.

OBJECTIVES: The European Committee on Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing 
(EUCAST) recently warned about an area of technical uncertainty (ATU) of 
amoxicillin/clavulanate (AMX/C) disk susceptibility testing against members of 
the Enterobacterales. Thus, we aimed to compare the reliability of three routine 
methods and to evaluate the impact of the ATU.
METHODS: 286 Escherichia coli strains (including 159 AMX-resistant strains) were 
categorized for the two EUCAST AMX/C breakpoints by disk diffusion (Bio-Rad), 
the Phoenix automated system (Becton Dickinson) and the Etest (AES) compared to 
the broth microdilution reference method.
RESULTS: By microdilution, 84.2% of strains were AMX/C-susceptible using the 
urinary breakpoint (MIC ≤32 mg/L) and 62.2% using the systemic breakpoint (MIC 
≤8 mg/L), with 63.6% of MICs between 4 and 16 mg/L. For the systemic breakpoint, 
category agreement (CA) and very major error (VME) were unacceptable for the 
Etest (71.7% and 27.3%), disk (73.1% and 23.4% at 19-mm cut-off) and to a lesser 
extent for the Phoenix system (83.6% and 10.5%). For disks, an unacceptable VME 
rate was observed for diameters up to 22 mm, probably due to overcharged disks. 
For the Etest, VMEs were high at 6 mg/L (46/63) and 8 mg/L (22/29). For the 
urinary breakpoint, CA was more acceptable for disk (88.9%) and Etest (84.3%) 
but was unevaluable for Phoenix.
CONCLUSION: AMX/C susceptibility testing of E. coli for systemic breakpoint was 
unreliable with the three routine methods, explained mainly by the high 
prevalence (~60%) of strains with microdilution MICs around the breakpoint (8 
mg/L). Our data confirmed the EUCAST 19-20-mm ATU for disk and suggest 
introducing ATU for Etest MIC values of 6 and 8 mg/L.

Copyright © 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmi.2020.02.038
PMID: 32151599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. J Clin Microbiol. 2023 Aug 23;61(8):e0046323. doi: 10.1128/jcm.00463-23. Epub 
2023 Jul 12.

Less Is More: When to Repeat Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing.

Sarink MJ(1), Bode LGM(1), Croughs P(1), de Steenwinkel JEM(1), Verkaik NJ(1), 
van Westreenen M(1), Vogel M(1), Yusuf E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases, Erasmus 
University Medical Center, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.

This study investigated the frequency of change of the antimicrobial 
susceptibility pattern when the same isolate was found in the same patient in 
various situations. We used laboratory data collected over a period of 8 years 
(January 2014 to December 2021) at the clinical microbiology laboratory of a 
tertiary hospital for Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Enterobacter 
spp., Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Staphylococcus aureus. Antimicrobial 
susceptibility tests (AST) were performed using Vitek 2 automated system. We 
determined essential agreement and categorical agreement, and introduced the new 
terms essential MIC increase and change from nonresistant to resistant to 
present changes in antimicrobial susceptibility over time. During the study 
period, 18,501 successive AST were included. The risk for S. aureus to be 
resistant to any antibiotic upon repeated culture was <10% during a follow-up of 
30 days. For Enterobacterales, this risk was approximately 10% during a 
follow-up of 7 days. For P. aeruginosa, this risk was higher. The longer the 
follow-up period, the higher the risk that the bacteria would show phenotypic 
resistance. We also found that some drug-bug combinations were more likely to 
develop phenotypical resistance (i.e., E. coli/amoxicillin-clavulanic acid and 
E. coli/cefuroxime). A potential consequence of our finding is that if we regard 
a risk of resistance below 10% as acceptable, it may be feasible to omit 
follow-up AST within 7 days for the microorganisms investigated in this study. 
This approach saves money, time, and will reduce laboratory waste. Further 
studies are needed to determine whether these savings are in balance with the 
small possibility of treating patients with inadequate antibiotics.

DOI: 10.1128/jcm.00463-23
PMCID: PMC10446856
PMID: 37436180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


104. Clin Ther. 2005 Dec;27(12):1950-60. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2005.11.017.

A pooled analysis of seven randomized crossover studies of the palatability of 
cefdinir oral suspension versus amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium, cefprozil, 
azithromycin, and amoxicillin in children aged 4 to 8 years.

Holas C(1), Chiu YL, Notario G, Kapral D.

Author information:
(1)Abbott Laboratories, Abbott Park, IL 60064, USA. cynthia.holas@abbott.com

OBJECTIVE: This analysis of the results of 7 trials compared the taste and smell 
acceptability scores of cefdinir oral suspension and 4 other pediatric 
antibiotic oral suspensions--amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium, cefprozil, 
azithromycin, or generic amoxicillin--using a visual smile-face scale.
METHODS: Data from 7 randomized, single-blind, cross-over trials were pooled and 
analyzed. In each study, children aged 4 to 8 years were asked to taste and 
smell 2 different antibiotic suspensions and assign preference using a visual 
smile-face scale. Ratings were converted to a numeric score ranging from 5 
(really good) to 1 (really bad).
RESULTS: A total of 1011 healthy subjects were randomly assigned to 1 of 2 
treatment-order groups; 965 were evaluable for the taste and smell analyses. 
Baseline demographics of evaluable subjects were similar among test groups. 
Approximately even proportions of participants were female or male (50.1 % vs 
49.9%), most (84.1%) were white, and slightly more participants were aged 7 or 8 
years rather than younger (age 4 years, 16.0%; age 5 years, 17.4%; age 6 years, 
18.7%; age 7 years, 23.2%; age 8 years, 24.8%). Of the 965 children who tasted 
both antibiotic suspensions and determined their preference, 798 (82.7%) rated 
the taste of cefdinir as really good or good (the highest possible ratings); 712 
(73.8%) assigned the same ratings to amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium, 
cefprozil, azithromycin, or generic amoxicillin (P < or = 0.001). With regard to 
smell, 671 (69.5%) rated the smell of cefdinir as really good or good; 636 
(65.9%) assigned these same ratings to the comparator agents (P = NS).
CONCLUSION: In this pooled analysis of data from 7 randomized, single-blind, 
crossover trials, children between the ages of 4 and 8 years preferred the taste 
of cefdinir oral suspension to that of other pediatric antibiotic suspensions. 
Based on smile-face scores, subjects found the smell of cefdinir oral suspension 
to be at least as good as that of the comparators.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2005.11.017
PMID: 16507381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Arq Gastroenterol. 2001 Jul-Sep;38(3):203-6. doi: 
10.1590/s0004-28032001000300011.

Triple therapy with clarithromycin, amoxicillin and omeprazole for Helicobacter 
pylori eradication in children and adolescents.

Kawakami E(1), Ogata SK, Portorreal AC, Magni AM, Pardo ML, Patrício FR.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Federal University of São Paulo, 
Escola Paulista de Medicina-UNIFESP-EPM, São Paulo, SP, Brazil. 
elkawakami.dped@epm.br

BACKGROUND: Helicobacter pylori infection presents high prevalence in developing 
countries, but there are few pediatric assays evaluating antimicrobial 
treatment.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to investigate Helicobacter pylori 
eradication rate using a short regimen (7 and 10 days) of triple therapy with 
clarithromycin, amoxicillin and omeprazole.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Twenty-five Hp positive patients who presented severe 
epigastralgia, were submitted to antimicrobial treatment with amoxicillin (50 
mg/kg/day--maximum dose 1 g bid), clarithromycin (30 mg/kg/day--maximum dose 500 
mg bid) and omeprazole (0.6 mg/kg/day--maximum dose 20 mg bid) during 7 or 10 
days. After 2 months, clinical symptoms were evaluated and gastric biopsies were 
taken to test Hp eradication.
RESULTS: Overall eradication rate was achieved in 16/25 patients (64%--IC(95% = 
45-83%), in 11/15 (73%--IC(95%) = 51-95%) patients who used 10 days therapy 
course and in 5/10 (50%--IC(95%) = 19-81%) who used 7 days therapy course. 
Eradication drugs were well accepted and adverse effects were reported in two 
patients (8%).
CONCLUSIONS: This triple therapy regimen had moderate efficacy (64%). The data 
suggests that 10 days therapy course achieves better eradication rate (73%) than 
7 days course (50%) to treat Hp infection in our population.

DOI: 10.1590/s0004-28032001000300011
PMID: 11917721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Antibiotics (Basel). 2023 Jun 15;12(6):1059. doi: 10.3390/antibiotics12061059.

Whole Genome Sequencing and Phenotypic Analysis of Antibiotic Resistance in 
Filifactor alocis Isolates.

Romero-Martínez R(1), Maher A(2), Àlvarez G(1), Figueiredo R(2), León R(1), 
Arredondo A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, DENTAID Research Center, 08290 Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Oral Surgery and Implantology, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, 
University of Barcelona, 08036 Barcelona, Spain.

There is scarce knowledge regarding the antimicrobial resistance profile of F. 
alocis. Therefore, the objective of this research was to assess antimicrobial 
resistance in recently obtained F. alocis clinical isolates and to identify the 
presence of antimicrobial resistance genes. Isolates were obtained from patients 
with periodontal or peri-implant diseases and confirmed by sequencing their 16S 
rRNA gene. Confirmed isolates had their genome sequenced by whole genome 
sequencing and their phenotypical resistance to nine antibiotics (amoxicillin 
clavulanate, amoxicillin, azithromycin, clindamycin, ciprofloxacin, doxycycline, 
minocycline, metronidazole, and tetracycline) tested by E-test strips. 
Antimicrobial resistance genes were detected in six of the eight isolates 
analyzed, of which five carried tet(32) and one erm(B). Overall, susceptibility 
to the nine antibiotics tested was high except for azithromycin in the isolate 
that carried erm(B). Moreover, susceptibility to tetracycline, doxycycline, and 
minocycline was lower in those isolates that carried tet(32). The genetic 
surroundings of the detected genes suggested their inclusion in mobile genetic 
elements that might be transferrable to other bacteria. These findings suggest 
that, despite showing high susceptibility to several antibiotics, F. alocis 
might obtain new antimicrobial resistance traits due to its acceptance of mobile 
genetic elements with antibiotic resistance genes in their genome.

DOI: 10.3390/antibiotics12061059
PMCID: PMC10295267
PMID: 37370380

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflict of interest to 
declare.


107. Pediatr Infect Dis J. 1997 Mar;16(3 Suppl):S60-4. doi: 
10.1097/00006454-199703001-00007.

Empiric antibiotic selection criteria for respiratory infections in pediatric 
practice.

Pichichero ME(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Rochester, NY 14642, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: Respiratory infections in children may occur as a consequence of 
resistant bacterial pathogens. Streptococcus pneumoniae organisms resistant to 
penicillin, trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole and macrolides are increasingly 
prevalent. Amoxicillin- and macrolide-resistant Haemophilus influenzae and 
Moraxella (Branhamella) catarrhalis are also more commonly seen. Traditional 
agents such as amoxicillin and trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole remain acceptable 
choices for most children with respiratory infections because currently most 
patients are not infected by resistant pathogens and there is a high spontaneous 
cure rate associated with these infections.
OBJECTIVE: To analyze the criteria for the selection of extended spectrum 
antimicrobials as empiric therapy for respiratory infections.
DISCUSSION: When an extended spectrum antimicrobial is appropriate for empiric 
therapy, selection should be based on: (1) efficacy; (2) adverse event profile; 
and (3) compliance-enhancing features (dosing with meals, once or twice daily 
administration, good palatability in suspension, shortened course of therapy and 
affordability). A new agent, ceftibuten, has recently joined other extended 
spectrum cephalosporins and newer macrolides (clarithromycin and azithromycin) 
as a choice to be considered for empiric therapy for respiratory infections. 
These antimicrobials are differentiated from each other and traditional agents 
by differences in activity in vitro against penicillin-resistant pneumococci, 
relative beta-lactamase stability against Gram-negative bacteria and 
pharmacodynamic properties. When resistant organisms are isolated or suspected 
in community-acquired respiratory infections, cautious use of newer antibiotics 
may have to be considered.

DOI: 10.1097/00006454-199703001-00007
PMID: 9076838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Molecules. 2022 Jan 18;27(3):582. doi: 10.3390/molecules27030582.

Antimicrobial Activity and DFT Studies of a Novel Set of Spiropyrrolidines 
Tethered with Thiochroman-4-one/Chroman-4-one Scaffolds.

Chouchène N(1), Toumi A(1), Boudriga S(1), Edziri H(2), Sobeh M(3), Abdelfattah 
MAO(4), Askri M(1), Knorr M(5), Strohmann C(6), Brieger L(6), Soldera A(7).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Heterocyclic Chemistry Natural Product and Reactivity 
(LR11ES39), Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science of Monastir, University 
of Monastir, Monastir 5019, Tunisia.
(2)Laboratoire des Maladies Transmissibles et des Substances Biologiquement 
Actives, Faculté de Pharmacie, Monastir 5000, Tunisia.
(3)AgroBioSciences Research, Mohammed VI Polytechnic University, Lot 660-Hay 
MoulayRachid, Ben Guerir 43150, Morocco.
(4)College of Engineering and Technology, American University of the Middle 
East, Kuwait.
(5)Institut UTINAM-UMR CNRS 6213, Université Bourgogne Franche-Comté, 16 Route 
de Gray, 25030 Besançon, France.
(6)Faculty of Chemistry, Inorganic Chemistry, Technical University Dortmund, 
Otto-Hahn-Strasse 6, 44227 Dortmund, Germany.
(7)Laboratory of Physical Chemistry of Matter, Department of Chemistry, 
Université de Sherbrooke, Sherbrooke, QC J1K 2R1, Canada.

A novel series of 14 spiropyrrolidines bearing thiochroman-4-one/chroman-4-one, 
and oxindole/acenaphthylene-1,2-dione moieties were synthesized and 
characterized by spectroscopic techniques, as well as by three X-ray diffraction 
studies, corroborating the stereochemistry. Quantum chemical calculations 
studies, using the DFT approach, were performed to rationalize the 
stereochemical outcome. These N-heterocycles were evaluated for their 
antibacterial and antifungal activities against some pathogenic organisms. 
Several compounds displayed moderate to excellent activity towards the screened 
microbe strains in the study compared to Amoxicillin (AMX), Ampicillin (AMP), 
and Amphotericin B. Furthermore, a structural activity relationship (SAR) was 
established considering the synthesized compounds. Pharmacokinetic studies 
reveal that these derivatives exhibit an acceptable predictive ADMET profile 
(Absorption, Distribution, Metabolism, Excretion and Toxicity) and good 
drug-likeness.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules27030582
PMCID: PMC8839074
PMID: 35163847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


109. Adv Skin Wound Care. 2021 May 1;34(5):1-4. doi: 
10.1097/01.ASW.0000741532.29113.78.

Diabetic Foot Amputation Prevention During COVID-19.

Shankhdhar K(1).

Author information:
(1)Kshitij Shankhdhar, MBBS, MD, PhD, is Diabetologist, L.K. Diabetes Centre, 
Indira Nagar, Lucknow, India. The author has disclosed no financial 
relationships related to this article. Submitted October 15, 2020; accepted in 
revised form December 4, 2020.

In this case report, the treatment of a patient with a diabetic foot ulcer on 
his left foot was interrupted by the novel coronavirus 2019 pandemic lockdown in 
India. The author guided the patient via telephone and online services. Based on 
the history given by the patient, the lesion started as blistering from 
improperly fitted footwear that then evolved into multiple infected ulcerations 
on the dorsal surface of the great toe (osteomyelitis with septic arthritis of 
the joint). Based on a radiograph and other photographs of the foot lesions, the 
author prescribed amoxicillin/clavulanic acid in combination with linezolid for 
2 weeks. Further, the author guided the patient to dress the wound at home using 
a medical-grade honey-based product. With no option for an outpatient visit, the 
author guided the patient to use a plastic ruler and place it below the toe 
during each dressing. Healing (complete epithelialization) was achieved within 4 
weeks.

Copyright © 2021 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/01.ASW.0000741532.29113.78
PMID: 33852467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Ann Transl Med. 2022 Sep;10(18):987. doi: 10.21037/atm-22-4133.

The efficacy of vonoprazan combined with different dose amoxicillin on 
eradication of Helicobacter pylori: an open, multicenter, randomized clinical 
study.

Lin Y(1)(2), Xu H(1)(2), Yun J(1)(2), Yu X(3), Shi Y(4), Zhang D(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Lanzhou University Second Hospital, Lanzhou, 
China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Digestive Diseases, Lanzhou University Second Hospital, 
Lanzhou, China.
(3)No. 940 Hospital of Joint Service Support Force, Lanzhou, China.
(4)Department of Gastroenterology, Gansu Provincial Hospital, Lanzhou, China.

BACKGROUND: The use of vonoprazan (VPZ) has improved the Helicobacter pylori (H. 
pylori) eradication therapy in Japan. There is no agreement on the dosage and 
frequency of amoxicillin administration in the VPZ dual treatment in China. We 
aimed to investigate the clinical effectiveness and safety of 3 treatment 
regimens using VPZ as an acid-suppressing medication to eradicate H. pylori.
METHODS: This experiment involved an open, multicenter, randomized, and parallel 
controlled clinical investigation. A total of 230 newly diagnosed H. 
pylori-infected patients were then randomly assigned to 1 of 3 groups: (I) H-VA 
(high-dose amoxicillin combined with VPZ): VPZ 20 mg b.i.d with amoxicillin 750 
mg q.i.d for 7 days; (II) L-VA (low-dose amoxicillin combined with VPZ): VPZ 20 
mg b.i.d plus amoxicillin 500 mg q.i.d for 7 days; (III) VAC (amoxicillin 
combined with VPZ and clarithromycin): VPZ 20 mg b.i.d plus amoxicillin 750 mg 
plus clarithromycin 500 mg for 7 days. At least 4 weeks after treatment, the 
urea breath test (UBT) was reexamined. The effectiveness of various regimens was 
assessed based on compliance, safety, and eradication rate.
RESULTS: The regimen effectiveness was 63.5% (54/85) in the H-VA group, 58.3% 
(49/84) in the L-VA group, and 60.7% (37/61) in the VAC group, according to 
intention to treat (ITT) analysis. According to per protocol (PP) analysis, the 
eradication rate of the H-VA group was 65.1% (54/83), that of the L-VA group was 
66.2% (49/74), and that of the VAC group was 64.9% (37/57). There was no 
discernible difference in the eradication rate across the 3 regimens, as shown 
by the results of ITT analysis (χ2=0.032, P=0.984) and PP analysis (χ2=0.480, 
P=0.786). The rate of adverse effect was 16.90% in the H-VA group, 13.20% in the 
L-VA group, and 24.10% in the VAC group. There was no discernible difference in 
the incidence of adverse effect between the three groups (χ2=2.784, P=0.266).
CONCLUSIONS: None of the 7-day elimination regimens investigated in this study, 
which included the acid-suppressing medicine VPZ and either a dual treatment 
paired with amoxicillin, or a triple treatment combined with amoxicillin and 
clarithromycin, achieved an acceptable eradication rate of H. pylori. Further 
research is required to identify an effective and safe treatment regimen.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Chinese Clinical Trial Registry identifier: 
ChiCTR2000040955.

2022 Annals of Translational Medicine. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21037/atm-22-4133
PMCID: PMC9577763
PMID: 36267745

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: All authors have 
completed the ICMJE uniform disclosure form (available at 
https://atm.amegroups.com/article/view/10.21037/atm-22-4133/coif). The authors 
have no conflicts of interest to declare.


111. J Food Sci Technol. 2022 Jan;59(1):95-104. doi: 10.1007/s13197-021-04988-8. Epub 
2021 Jan 22.

Determination of antibiotic residues in bovine milk by HPLC-DAD and assessment 
of human health risks in Northwestern Himalayan region, India.

Kumar A(1), Panda AK(1), Sharma N(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary Public Health and Epidemiology, CSK Himachal Pradesh 
Agricultural University, Palampur, 176 062 India.
(2)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, CSK Himachal Pradesh Agricultural 
University, Palampur, 176 062 India.

Antibiotic residues in milk affects economics of dairy industry and poses health 
risks to consumers. This study aimed to assess health risks associated with 
presence of antibiotics in 173 raw and pasteurized milk sampled from 
northwestern Himalayan state of India. The oxytetracycline and amoxicillin were 
quantitatively analyzed using validated HPLC-DAD. Methods were selective and 
linear (R2 > 0.99) with decision limit and detection capability of 1.4 and 
0.9 µg/kg and 2.5 and 1.5 µg/kg for oxytetracycline and amoxicillin, 
respectively. Recoveries ranged from 88-98% with relative standard 
deviation < 10%. Oxytetracycline and amoxicillin were detected in 8.1% and 1.2% 
samples, with 1.7% and 1.2% samples exceeding the tolerance limits, 
respectively. Health risk assessment revealed that estimated daily intakes of 
antibiotics through milk were lower than acceptable daily intakes (ADI). 
However, children might receive 9-21% of determined ADI through milk consumption 
only. Therefore, continuous, sub-therapeutic and long term exposures of 
antibiotics can pose health risk to consumers. Hence, current findings elucidate 
the need for vigilant monitoring of antibiotics accompanied by educational 
programs to farmers for adopting good husbandry practices and adherence to 
withdrawal periods to meet the expectations of food safety and safeguarding 
human health.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The online version of this article contains 
supplementary material available at (10.1007/s13197-021-04988-8).

© Association of Food Scientists & Technologists (India) 2021.

DOI: 10.1007/s13197-021-04988-8
PMCID: PMC8758827
PMID: 35068555

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestThe authors declare that 
they have no competing interests.


112. Lancet. 2015 May 2;385(9979):1758-1766. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(14)62285-6. Epub 
2015 Apr 1.

Oral amoxicillin compared with injectable procaine benzylpenicillin plus 
gentamicin for treatment of neonates and young infants with fast breathing when 
referral is not possible: a randomised, open-label, equivalence trial.

African Neonatal Sepsis Trial (AFRINEST) group; Tshefu A(1), Lokangaka A(1), 
Ngaima S(1), Engmann C(2), Esamai F(3), Gisore P(3), Ayede AI(4), Falade AG(4), 
Adejuyigbe EA(5), Anyabolu CH(6), Wammanda RD(7), Ejembi CL(8), Ogala WN(7), 
Gram L(9), Cousens S(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health, Kinshasa School of Public Health, Kinshasa, 
DR Congo.
(2)Departments of Pediatrics and Maternal Child Health, Schools of Medicine and 
Public Health, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(3)Department of Child Health and Paediatrics, School of Medicine, Moi 
University, Eldoret, Kenya.
(4)Department of Paediatrics, College of Medicine, University of Ibadan, and 
University College Hospital, Ibadan, Nigeria.
(5)Department of Paediatrics and Child Health, Obafemi Awolowo University, 
Ile-Ife, Nigeria. Electronic address: ebunadejuyigbe@hotmail.com.
(6)Department of Paediatrics and Child Health, Obafemi Awolowo University, 
Ile-Ife, Nigeria.
(7)Department of Paediatrics, Ahmadu Bello University Teaching Hospital, Ahmadu 
Bello University, Zaria, Nigeria.
(8)Department of Community Medicine, Ahmadu Bello University Teaching Hospital, 
Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, Nigeria.
(9)Department of Infectious Disease Epidemiology, Faculty of Epidemiology and 
Population Health, London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, London, UK.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2015 May 2;385(9979):1706-1709. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(15)60204-5.
    J Pediatr. 2015 Sep;167(3):778-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2015.06.057.
    Lancet. 2015 Oct 3;386(10001):1338-1339. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(15)00331-1.
    Lancet. 2015 Oct 3;386(10001):1339. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(15)00332-3.
    Natl Med J India. 2015 Jul-Aug;28(4):191-3.

BACKGROUND: WHO recommends referral to hospital for possible serious bacterial 
infection in young infants aged 0-59 days. We aimed to assess whether oral 
amoxicillin treatment for fast breathing, in the absence of other signs, is as 
efficacious as the combination of injectable procaine 
benzylpenicillin-gentamicin.
METHODS: In a randomised, open-label, equivalence trial at five sites in DR 
Congo, Kenya, and Nigeria, community health workers followed up all births in 
the community, identified unwell young infants, and referred them to study 
nurses. We randomly assigned infants with fast breathing as a single sign of 
illness or possible serious bacterial infection, whose parents did not accept 
referral to hospital, to receive either injectable procaine 
benzylpenicillin-gentamicin once per day or oral amoxicillin treatment twice per 
day for 7 days. A person who was off-site generated randomisation lists using 
computer software. Trained health professionals gave injections, but outcome 
assessors were masked to group allocations. The primary outcome was treatment 
failure by day 8 after enrolment, defined as clinical deterioration, development 
of a serious adverse event including death, persistence of fast breathing on day 
4, or recurrence up to day 8. The primary analysis was per protocol and we used 
a prespecified similarity margin of 5% to assess equivalence between regimens. 
This study is registered with the Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials 
Registry, number ACTRN12610000286044.
FINDINGS: From April 4, 2011, to March 29, 2013, we enrolled 2333 infants aged 
0-59 days with fast breathing as the only sign of possible serious bacterial 
infection at the five study sites. We assigned 1170 infants to receive 
injectable procaine benzylpenicillin-gentamicin and 1163 infants to receive oral 
amoxicillin. In the per-protocol analysis, from which 137 infants were excluded, 
we included 1061 (91%) infants who fulfilled predefined criteria of adherence to 
treatment and adequate follow-up in the injectable procaine 
benzylpenicillin-gentamicin group and 1145 (98%) infants in the oral amoxicillin 
group. In the procaine benzylpenicillin-gentamicin group, 234 infants (22%) 
failed treatment, compared with 221 (19%) infants in the oral amoxicillin group 
(risk difference -2·6%, 95% CI -6·0 to 0·8). Four infants died within 15 days of 
follow-up in each group. We detected no drug-related serious adverse events.
INTERPRETATION: Young infants with fast breathing alone can be effectively 
treated with oral amoxicillin on an outpatient basis when referral to a hospital 
is not possible.
FUNDING: Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation grant to WHO.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(14)62285-6
PMID: 25842223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Arch Razi Inst. 2022 Dec 31;77(6):2235-2242. doi: 10.22092/ARI.2022.358489.2230. 
eCollection 2022 Dec.

Study of Some Resistance Genes in Clinical Proteus mirabilis.

Abed Gumar E(1), Salim Hamzah A(2), Fadhil Hamad W(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Laboratory Techniques, College of Health and Medical 
Technology, Middle Technical University, Baghdad, Iraq.
(2)Department of Anesthesia technique, Institute of Medical Technology, Middle 
Technical University, Baghdad, Iraq.

Proteus mirabilis belongs to the family Enterobacteriaceae and is capable of 
transforming in shape from rod to elongated and swarming motility by flagella. 
It is an opportunity for bacteria and can cause different clinical diseases. 
Therefore, this study aimed to assay and detect a sequence of genes that encode 
for antibiotic resistance in multidrug resistance clinical isolates of Proteus 
mirabilis, including blaTEM, aac(6')-Ib, qnrA, IntI2, IntI1 and secondly to 
investigate the relationship in the phylogenetic tree among these genes in Iraq 
comparison with global strains in NCBI. The study included the identifying of 
500 clinical samples depending on morphological and biochemical tests and 
confirming Proteus mirabilis diagnosis by the VITEK-2 Compact system. The 
confirmed isolates of Proteus mirabilis were 95 clinical isolates (19%). 
Antibiotic susceptibility test of all these isolates was done using twelve 
antibiotics tested using Amoxicillin, Aztreonam, Imipenem, Cefoxitin, Amikacin, 
Ceftazidem, Ciprofloxacin, Nalidixic acid, Gentamicin, 
Sulphamethazol-trimethoprim, Cefotaxime, Amoxicillin-clavulanic acid. The 
results showed that multidrug resistance Proteus mirabilis isolates contained 
the genes in different levels as follow blaTEM gene (90%), aac(6')-Ib gene (80%) 
,IntI1 gene (100%), IntI2 gene (80%). These genes were sequenced and detected 
phylogenetic relationships among these genes and global genes were documented in 
NCBI. The results showed that some Iraqi isolates contain genetic variation 
compared to global strains. Therefore, this variation was detected and 
registered in NCBI of all five antibiotic resistance genes mentioned above and 
accepted under accession numbers of aacIb gene (LC613168.1), blaTEM gene 
(LC613166.1), IntI1 gene (LC613169.1), IntI2 gene (LC613170.1).

DOI: 10.22092/ARI.2022.358489.2230
PMCID: PMC10237585
PMID: 37274906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


114. Braz J Biol. 2022 May 9;84:e257473. doi: 10.1590/1519-6984.257473. eCollection 
2022.

Isolation and identification of keratinolytic probiotic Bucillus licheniformis 
bacteria from the soil below poultry slaughterhouse waste.

Vanaki P(1), Zaboli F(1), Kaboosi H(1), Amoli RI(1), Savadkoohi F(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, Ayatollah Amoli Branch, Islamic Azad University, 
Amol, Iran.
(2)Department of Biology, Ayatollah Amoli Branch, Islamic Azad University, Amol, 
Iran.

Feathers make up 7% of the total weight of adult chickens and keratin protein 
makes up 85% of the feathers. Today, the keratinase enzymes of some Bacillus 
strains are used to degrade and process raw keratin waste for animal and poultry 
feed. According to various studies, the probiotic properties of some 
spore-shaped Bacillus have also been proven. The study aimed to isolation of the 
keratinolytic Bacillus bacteria that they have probiotic properties for using in 
the livestock and poultry feed industry. We were able to isolate 8 strains of 
Bacillus licheniformis with kreatin degrading properties from the soil of 
Baharan chicken slaughterhouse (Qom city, Iran) applying heat shock, alcohol- 
and keratin-rich culture medium, and after microscopic and biochemical analysis, 
16S rDNA gene was isolated. The measurement results of keratinase activity 
showed that the three strains of Bacillus licheniformis pvkr6, pvkr 15, and 
pvkr41 had the highest activity with 124.08, 101.1, and 100.18 U/ml. The results 
of probiotic properties evaluation also revealed that among all the isolates, 
only Bacillus licheniformis pvkr15 and Bacillus licheniformis PTCC 1595 
(positive control) were γ-hemolytic strains. The percentage of surface 
hydrophobicity of the strains was obtained from 3.27 to 30.57. It was also shown 
that, on average, all the strains had acceptable susceptibility to the tested 
antibiotics except penicillin G. Bacillus licheniformis pvkr15 with highest 
keratinase activity (101.1U/ml) was considered an optional probiotics due to its 
abilities such as (biofilm formation, being safe cause of γ-hemolytic activity, 
high susceptibility to antibiotics such as streptomycin, gentamicin, cefixime, 
amoxicillin, tetracycline, vancomycin, erythromycin and having a moderate 
hydrophilic (hydrophobicity: 19.09%), high survivability in pH 2, 2.5 and 3, 
strong resistance to bile salts and moderate antagonistic activity against 
pathogenic bacterium like Proteus mirabilis and the ability to grow under 
anaerobic conditions). By using this strain, after hydrolysis of keratin protein 
in the feather structure, to replace part of the protein of livestock and 
poultry feed, not only is no need to separate bacteria from the feed, but also 
the strain play role of an useful and effective additive in animal growth.

DOI: 10.1590/1519-6984.257473
PMID: 35544789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. South Med J. 1990 Oct;83(10):1174-7. doi: 10.1097/00007611-199010000-00013.

Comparison of cefuroxime axetil, cefaclor, and amoxicillin-clavulanate potassium 
suspensions in acute otitis media in infants and children.

Pichichero M(1), Aronovitz GH, Gooch WM, McLinn SE, Maddern B, Johnson C, Darden 
PM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Rochester, NY 14642.

In this randomized, blinded, multicenter comparison study, 377 infants and 
children with acute otitis media (AOM) received a 10-day course of an oral 
suspension of one of the following: cefuroxime axetil (CAE), 30 mg/kg/day; 
cefaclor (CEC), 40 mg/kg/day; or amoxicillin-clavulanate potassium (AMX-CL), 40 
mg/kg/day. Clinical efficacy was determined by pneumatic otoscopy and 
tympanometric testing 3 to 5, 11 to 14, and 22 to 26 days after the initiation 
of therapy. There was a statistically significant difference among the three 
treatment groups with respect to clinical outcome; more patients in the CAE 
group (62%) than in the CEC group (46%) or the AMX-CL group (52%) had complete 
resolution of signs and symptoms of AOM (including effusion). Paired comparisons 
revealed a significant difference in efficacy between CAE and CEC and a nearly 
significant difference between AMX-CL and CEC. Taste acceptability was highest 
for CEC and lowest for this formulation of CAE. Significantly more patients in 
the AMX-CL group than in the CAE or CEC group had a side effect, primarily 
diarrhea, vomiting, or diaper rash. We conclude that CAE suspension has greater 
clinical efficacy than CEC and fewer side effects than AMX-CL.

DOI: 10.1097/00007611-199010000-00013
PMID: 2218657 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Int J Antimicrob Agents. 2016 Dec;48(6):753-756. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijantimicag.2016.09.019. Epub 2016 Nov 2.

Post-marketing surveillance of generic amoxicillin using a microbiological assay 
and pharmacokinetic approach in rats.

de Mattos LIS(1), Ferraris FK(1), Machado TSC(1), de Brito TM(1), Chaves AS(1), 
Pereira HM(2), Pinto DP(2), da Silva DMD(2), Amendoeira FC(3).

Author information:
(1)Instituto Nacional de Controle de Qualidade em Saúde, Fundação Oswaldo Cruz, 
(INCQS/Fiocruz), Av. Brasil, 4365-Manguinhos, Rio de Janeiro, RJ 21040-900, 
Brazil.
(2)Laboratório de Farmacocinética, Fundação Oswaldo Cruz (Fiocruz), Manguinhos, 
Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil.
(3)Instituto Nacional de Controle de Qualidade em Saúde, Fundação Oswaldo Cruz, 
(INCQS/Fiocruz), Av. Brasil, 4365-Manguinhos, Rio de Janeiro, RJ 21040-900, 
Brazil. Electronic address: fabio.amendoeira@incqs.fiocruz.br.

Generic medicines were developed to increase population access to health 
treatment, to reduce costs and to allow drugs with the same outcomes to be 
purchased at lower prices. They are therapeutically equivalent to their 
brand-name counterparts and are interchangeable with them. However, the 
acceptance of generic medicines by physicians and general consumers is often 
affected by distrust related to quality and efficacy. In this study three 
different brands of generic amoxicillin were tested. The results showed that two 
of them were indistinguishable from the innovator in terms of microbiological 
potency; however, generic B was unable to reach the Brazilian Pharmacopoeia 
specifications for potency limits. In contrast, generic B was bioequivalent to 
the innovator amoxicillin in pharmacokinetic assessment and, surprisingly, 
generic A, which was approved in the microbiological potency assay, lacked 
pharmacokinetic equivalence compared with the innovator. Both tests, when used 
singly, may not be effective at detecting quality deviations in antimicrobial 
medicines, which indicates that pharmacokinetic tests in rats in association 
with microbiological potency assays are a valuable tool for post-marketing 
surveillance of generic antibiotics.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. and International Society of Chemotherapy. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijantimicag.2016.09.019
PMID: 27838279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. J S Afr Vet Assoc. 2024 Jul 18. doi: 10.36303/JSAVA.583. Online ahead of print.

Detection and quantification of antibiotic residues in goat milk in Mahikeng 
Local Municipality.

Ndlovu KL(1), Mwanza M(1)(2), Nleya N(1), Ngoma L(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Health, School of Agriculture, North-West University, 
South Africa.
(2)Food Security and Safety Niche Area, Faculty of Natural and Agricultural 
Sciences, North-West University, Mafikeng Campus, South Africa.

Goat milk could be used to reduce malnutrition since it is highly nutritious, 
and many people in rural communities in South Africa rear small ruminants for 
survival. However, the risk of food contamination by antibiotic residues is one 
of the significant problems facing public health, and is a result of the 
irresponsible use of veterinary drugs. One hundred goat farmers were interviewed 
using a questionnaire, and raw milk samples from 266 goats were collected and 
analysed for the presence of antibiotic residues. Screening for amoxicillin, 
tetracycline, sulfamethazine, erythromycin, and streptomycin residues was done 
using the enzymelinked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) while high-performance liquid 
chromatography (HPLC) was carried out for confirmation. The questionnaire shows 
that all (100%) of the participants acknowledged the use of antibiotics on their 
goats and 99% of them were aware of the possibility of antibiotic residues in 
milk. ELISA results for residues of erythromycin, sulfamethazine and amoxicillin 
exceeded the Codex Alimentarius maximum residue levels (MRLs) in 94.7%, 82.3%, 
and 35.3% of analysed samples, respectively. Tetracycline was present in all 
(100%) analysed milk samples, and streptomycin was detected in 18.7% of samples; 
however, these results were below the recommended MRLs. The HPLC method 
confirmed the presence of streptomycin and tetracycline residues in 90% and 40% 
of the samples analysed. However, the concentrations were below the accepted MRL 
standards. Approximately 76.6% of samples exceeded the established MRL for 
sulfamethazine and 10% for erythromycin. Amoxicillin was not detected by the 
HPLC method. The results obtained in this study indicate a high level of 
contamination of goat milk with antibiotic residues, which may harm the health 
of the consumers.

DOI: 10.36303/JSAVA.583
PMID: 39248355


118. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2017 Nov;475(11):2795-2804. doi: 
10.1007/s11999-017-5470-y. Epub 2017 Aug 9.

How Long Does Antimycobacterial Antibiotic-loaded Bone Cement Have In Vitro 
Activity for Musculoskeletal Tuberculosis?

Lee JH(1), Han CD(2), Cho SN(3), Yang IH(1), Lee WS(1), Baek SH(3), Shin JW(1), 
Husein KEI(4), Park KK(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Yonsei University College of Medicine, 134 
Sinchon-dong, Seodaemun-gu, Seoul, 120-752, Korea.
(2)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Seoul Bumin Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(3)Department of Microbiology and Institute for Immunology and Immunological 
Diseases, Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(4)Department of Trauma and Orthopaedic Surgery, Kosti Teaching Hospital, Kosti, 
Sudan.
(5)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Yonsei University College of Medicine, 134 
Sinchon-dong, Seodaemun-gu, Seoul, 120-752, Korea. kkpark@yuhs.ac.

Comment in
    Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2017 Nov;475(11):2805-2807. doi: 
10.1007/s11999-017-5490-7.

BACKGROUND: Antibiotic-loaded bone cement is accepted as an effective treatment 
modality for musculoskeletal tuberculosis. However, comparative information 
regarding combinations and concentrations of second-line antimycobacterial 
drugs, such as streptomycin and amoxicillin and clavulanic acid, are lacking.
QUESTIONS/PURPOSES: (1) In antibiotic-loaded cement, is there effective elution 
of streptomycin and Augmentin® (amoxicillin and clavulanic acid) individually 
and in combination? (2) What is the antibacterial activity duration for 
streptomycin- and amoxicillin and clavulanic acid -loaded cement?
METHODS: Six different types of bone cement discs were created by mixing 40 g 
bone cement with 1 or 2 g streptomycin only, 0.6 g or 1.2 g Augmentin® 
(amoxicillin and clavulanic acid) only, and a combination of 1 g streptomycin 
plus 0.6 g amoxicillin and clavulanic acid and 2 g streptomycin plus 1.2 g 
amoxicillin and clavulanic acid. Five bone discs of each type were incubated in 
phosphate buffered saline for 30 days with renewal of the phosphate buffered 
saline every day. The quantity of streptomycin and/or amoxicillin and clavulanic 
acid in eluates were measured by a liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry 
system, and the antimycobacterial activity of eluates against Mycobacterium 
tuberculosis H37Rv, were calculated by comparing the minimal inhibitory 
concentration of each eluate with that of tested drugs using broth dilution 
assay on microplate.
RESULTS: Streptomycin was detected in eluates for 30 days (in 1 g and 2 g 
discs), whereas 1.2 g amoxicillin and clavulanate eluted until Day 7 and 0.6 g 
amoxicillin and clavulanate until Day 3. All eluates in streptomycin-containing 
discs (streptomycin only, and in combination with amoxicillin and clavulanic 
acid) had effective antimycobacterial activity for 30 days, while amoxicillin 
and clavulanate-only preparations were only active until Day 14. The 
antimycobacterial activity of eluates of 2 g streptomycin plus 1.2 g amoxicillin 
and clavulanate were higher than those of discs containing 1 g streptomycin plus 
0.6 g amoxicillin and clavulanate until Day 3, without differences (Day 3, 1 g 
streptomycin plus 0.6 g amoxicillin and clavulanate: 17.5 ± 6.85 ug/mL; 2 g 
streptomycin plus 1.2 g amoxicillin and clavulanate: 32.5 ± 16.77 ug/mL; p = 
0.109). After Day 7, however, values of the two combinations remained no 
different than that of Day 30 (Day 30, 1 g streptomycin plus 0.6 g amoxicillin 
and clavulanate: 0.88 ± 0.34 ug/mL; 2 g streptomycin plus 1.2 g amoxicillin and 
clavulanate: 0.59 ± 0.94 ug/mL; p = 0.107).
CONCLUSIONS: Streptomycin, in the form of antibiotic-loaded bone cement, had 
effective elution characteristics and antimycobacterial effects during a 30-day 
period, whereas amoxicillin and clavulanate only had effective elution and 
antimycobacterial characteristics during the early period of this study. The two 
drugs did not interfere with each other during the elution test.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE: This research revealed that combinations of streptomycin and 
amoxicillin and clavulanate mixed with bone cement are effective for 30 days. 
Further trials to determine various different combinations of drugs are 
necessary to improve the effectiveness of treatments for musculoskeletal 
tuberculosis.

DOI: 10.1007/s11999-017-5470-y
PMCID: PMC5638744
PMID: 28795294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Gut Microbes. 2020 Sep 2;11(5):1314-1323. doi: 10.1080/19490976.2020.1754118. 
Epub 2020 May 2.

Amoxicillin or tetracycline in bismuth-containing quadruple therapy as 
first-line treatment for Helicobacter pylori infection.

Bang CS(1)(2)(3), Lim H(1)(2), Jeong HM(1)(2), Shin WG(1)(2), Choi JH(3), Soh 
JS(1)(2), Kang HS(1)(2), Yang YJ(1)(2), Hong JT(1)(2), Shin SP(1)(2), Suk 
KT(1)(2), Lee JJ(3)(4), Baik GH(1)(2), Kim DJ(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Hallym University College of Medicine , 
Chuncheon, Korea.
(2)Institute for Liver and Digestive Diseases, Hallym University , Chuncheon, 
Korea.
(3)Institute of New Frontier Research, Hallym University College of Medicine , 
Chuncheon, Korea.
(4)Department of Anesthesiology and Pain Medicine, Hallym University College of 
Medicine , Chuncheon, Korea.

AIM: To compare the efficacy and safety between modified quadruple- and 
bismuth-containing quadruple therapy as first-line eradication regimen for 
Helicobacter pylori infection.
METHODS: This study was a multicenter, randomized-controlled, non-inferiority 
trial. Subjects endoscopically diagnosed with H. pylori infection were randomly 
allocated to receive modified quadruple- (rabeprazole 20 mg bid, amoxicillin 1 g 
bid, metronidazole 500 mg tid, bismuth subcitrate 300 mg qid [elemental bismuth 
480 mg]; PAMB) or bismuth-containing quadruple therapy (rabeprazole 20 mg bid, 
bismuth subcitrate 300 mg qid, metronidazole 500 mg tid, tetracycline 500 mg 
qid; PBMT) for 14 days. Rates of eradication success and adverse events were 
investigated. Antibiotic resistance was determined using the agar dilution and 
DNA sequencing of the clarithromycin resistance point mutations in the 23 S rRNA 
gene of H. pylori.
RESULTS: In total, 233 participants were randomized, 27 were lost to follow-up, 
and four violated the protocol. Both regimens showed an acceptable eradication 
rate in the intention-to-treat (PAMB: 87.2% vs. PBMT: 82.8%, P = .37), modified 
intention-to-treat (96.2% vs. 96%, P > .99), and per-protocol (96.2% vs. 96.9%, 
P > .99) analyses. Non-inferiority in the eradication success between PAMB and 
PBMT was confirmed. The amoxicillin-, metronidazole-, tetracycline-, 
clarithromycin-, and levofloxacin-resistance rates were 8.3, 40, 9.4, 23.5, and 
42.2%, respectively. Antimicrobial resistance did not significantly affect the 
efficacy of either therapy. Overall compliance was 98.1%. Adverse events were 
not significantly different between the two therapies.
CONCLUSION: Modified quadruple therapy comprising rabeprazole, amoxicillin, 
metronidazole, and bismuth is an effective first-line treatment for the H. 
pylori infection in regions with high clarithromycin and metronidazole 
resistance.

DOI: 10.1080/19490976.2020.1754118
PMCID: PMC7524369
PMID: 32362221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Health Technol Assess. 2024 Mar;28(14):1-101. doi: 10.3310/RGTP7112.

Early switch from intravenous to oral antibiotic therapy in patients with cancer 
who have low-risk neutropenic sepsis: the EASI-SWITCH RCT.

Coyle V(1), Forde C(1), Adams R(2), Agus A(3), Barnes R(4), Chau I(5), Clarke 
M(6), Doran A(3), Grayson M(7), McAuley D(8), McDowell C(3), Phair G(3), Plummer 
R(9), Storey D(10), Thomas A(11), Wilson R(12), McMullan R(8).

Author information:
(1)Patrick G Johnston Centre for Cancer Research, Queen's University Belfast, 
Belfast, UK.
(2)Centre for Trials Research - Cancer Division, Cardiff University, Cardiff, 
UK.
(3)Northern Ireland Clinical Trials Unit, Belfast Health and Social Care Trust, 
Belfast, UK.
(4)School of Medicine, Cardiff University, Cardiff, UK.
(5)Department of Medicine, Royal Marsden Hospital, Surrey, UK.
(6)Centre for Public Health, Queens University Belfast, Belfast, UK.
(7)Northern Ireland Cancer Research Consumer Forum, Belfast Health and Social 
Care Trust, Belfast, UK.
(8)Wellcome-Wolfson Institute for Experimental Medicine, Queens University 
Belfast, Belfast, UK.
(9)Translational and Clinical Research Institute, Newcastle University, 
Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
(10)The Beatson West of Scotland Cancer Centre, Gartnavel General Hospital, 
Glasgow, UK.
(11)Leicester Cancer Research Centre, University of Leicester, Leicester, UK.
(12)Institute of Cancer Sciences, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK.

BACKGROUND: Neutropenic sepsis is a common complication of systemic anticancer 
treatment. There is variation in practice in timing of switch to oral 
antibiotics after commencement of empirical intravenous antibiotic therapy.
OBJECTIVES: To establish the clinical and cost effectiveness of early switch to 
oral antibiotics in patients with neutropenic sepsis at low risk of infective 
complications.
DESIGN: A randomised, multicentre, open-label, allocation concealed, 
non-inferiority trial to establish the clinical and cost effectiveness of early 
oral switch in comparison to standard care.
SETTING: Nineteen UK oncology centres.
PARTICIPANTS: Patients aged 16 years and over receiving systemic anticancer 
therapy with fever (≥ 38°C), or symptoms and signs of sepsis, and neutropenia 
(≤ 1.0 × 109/l) within 24 hours of randomisation, with a Multinational 
Association for Supportive Care in Cancer score of ≥ 21 and receiving 
intravenous piperacillin/tazobactam or meropenem for < 24 hours were eligible. 
Patients with acute leukaemia or stem cell transplant were excluded.
INTERVENTION: Early switch to oral ciprofloxacin (750 mg twice daily) and 
co-amoxiclav (625 mg three times daily) within 12-24 hours of starting 
intravenous antibiotics to complete 5 days treatment in total. Control was 
standard care, that is, continuation of intravenous antibiotics for at least 48 
hours with ongoing treatment at physician discretion.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Treatment failure, a composite measure assessed at day 14 
based on the following criteria: fever persistence or recurrence within 72 hours 
of starting intravenous antibiotics; escalation from protocolised antibiotics; 
critical care support or death.
RESULTS: The study was closed early due to under-recruitment with 129 patients 
recruited; hence, a definitive conclusion regarding non-inferiority cannot be 
made. Sixty-five patients were randomised to the early switch arm and 64 to the 
standard care arm with subsequent intention-to-treat and per-protocol analyses 
including 125 (intervention n = 61 and control n = 64) and 113 (intervention n = 
53 and control n = 60) patients, respectively. In the intention-to-treat 
population the treatment failure rates were 14.1% in the control group and 24.6% 
in the intervention group, difference = 10.5% (95% confidence interval 0.11 to 
0.22). In the per-protocol population the treatment failure rates were 13.3% and 
17.7% in control and intervention groups, respectively; difference = 3.7% (95% 
confidence interval 0.04 to 0.148). Treatment failure predominantly consisted of 
persistence or recurrence of fever and/or physician-directed escalation from 
protocolised antibiotics with no critical care admissions or deaths. The median 
length of stay was shorter in the intervention group and adverse events reported 
were similar in both groups. Patients, particularly those with care-giving 
responsibilities, expressed a preference for early switch. However, differences 
in health-related quality of life and health resource use were small and not 
statistically significant.
CONCLUSIONS: Non-inferiority for early oral switch could not be proven due to 
trial under-recruitment. The findings suggest this may be an acceptable 
treatment strategy for some patients who can adhere to such a treatment regimen 
and would prefer a potentially reduced duration of hospitalisation while 
accepting increased risk of treatment failure resulting in re-admission. Further 
research should explore tools for patient stratification for low-risk 
de-escalation or ambulatory pathways including use of biomarkers and/or 
point-of-care rapid microbiological testing as an adjunct to clinical 
decision-making tools. This could include application to shorter-duration 
antimicrobial therapy in line with other antimicrobial stewardship studies.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: This trial is registered as ISRCTN84288963.
FUNDING: This award was funded by the National Institute for Health and Care 
Research (NIHR) Health Technology Assessment programme (NIHR award ref: 
13/140/05) and is published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 28, 
No. 14. See the NIHR Funding and Awards website for further award information.

Plain Language Summary: Neutropenic sepsis, or infection with a low white blood 
cell count, can occur following cancer treatment. Usually patients receive 
treatment with intravenous antibiotics (antibiotics delivered into a vein) for 
two or more days. Patients at low risk of complications from their infection may 
be able to have a shorter period of intravenous antibiotics benefitting both 
patients and the NHS. The trial compared whether changing from intravenous to 
oral antibiotics (antibiotics taken by mouth as tablets or liquid) 12–24 hours 
after starting antibiotic treatment (‘early switch’) is as effective as usual 
care. Patients could take part if they had started intravenous antibiotics for 
low-risk neutropenic sepsis. Patients were randomly allocated to ‘early switch’ 
or to usual care. The main outcome measured was treatment failure. Treatment 
failure happened if fever persisted or recurred despite antibiotics, if patients 
needed to change antibiotics, if they needed to be re-admitted to hospital or 
needed to be admitted to intensive care within 14 days or died. We had 
originally intended that 628 patients would take part, but after review of the 
design of the study the number needed to take part was revised to 230. We were 
not able to complete the trial as planned as unfortunately only 129 patients 
took part. As the trial was smaller than expected we were not able to draw 
conclusions as to whether ‘early switch’ is no less effective than usual care. 
Our findings suggest that ‘early switch’ might result in a shorter time in 
hospital initially; however, treatment failure was more likely to occur, meaning 
some patients had to return to hospital for further antibiotics. There were no 
differences in side effects and no serious complications from treatment or 
treatment failure (such as intensive care admission or death) among the 65 
patients in the ‘early switch’ group. Patients were satisfied with ‘early 
switch’. Early switch may be a treatment option for some patients with low-risk 
neutropenic sepsis who would prefer a shorter duration of hospital admission but 
accept a risk of needing hospital re-admission.

DOI: 10.3310/RGTP7112
PMCID: PMC11017157
PMID: 38512064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


121. J Antimicrob Chemother. 2023 Feb 1;78(2):389-396. doi: 10.1093/jac/dkac401.

The effect of the acute phase of infection on absorption of and exposure to 
orally administered antibiotics in non-critically ill, hospitalized patients.

Van Den Broek AK(1), Visser CE(2), Veenstra J(3), Van Den Berg BTJ(4), Prins 
JM(1), Van Hest RM(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Infectious Diseases, Amsterdam 
UMC, University of Amsterdam, Meibergdreef 9, 1105 AZ, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(2)Department of Medical Microbiology and Infection Prevention, Amsterdam UMC, 
University of Amsterdam, Meibergdreef 9, 1105 AZ, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, OLVG, location West, Jan Tooropstraat 164, 
1061 AE, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(4)Department of Pulmonology, OLVG, location West, Jan Tooropstraat 164, 1061 
AE, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(5)Department of Hospital Pharmacy, Division of Clinical Pharmacology, Amsterdam 
UMC, University of Amsterdam, Meibergdreef 9, 1105 AZ, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: During the acute phase of infection, IV antibiotics are preferred to 
ensure adequate systemic exposure. To assess whether adequate exposure may also 
be achieved with oral antibiotics, we investigated exposure to oral antibiotics 
and PTA during the acute phase of infection and after defervescence.
METHODS: We enrolled hospitalized, non-critically ill febrile patients treated 
with IV antibiotics other than amoxicillin or ciprofloxacin. The study consisted 
of two visits: when patients had received <24 h IV treatment; and when patients 
had become afebrile. On both visits, patients received one additional dose of 
750 mg amoxicillin, or 500 mg ciprofloxacin, depending on the presumed 
infection, after which serial blood samples were obtained. The primary endpoint 
was the ratio of the AUC during the febrile and the afebrile phase. The AUCs 
were considered to be equivalent when the ratio of the mean AUCs and its 90% CI 
was contained within the acceptance interval of 80%-125%. The secondary endpoint 
was PTA.
RESULTS: Forty-four patients (15 amoxicillin, 29 ciprofloxacin) completed both 
study visits. The median time between the two study visits was 65.8 h (range 
33.8-427.4). The ratio of the mean AUCs (study visit 1/study visit 2) was 97% 
(90% CI of 80%-117%) for amoxicillin and 112% (90% CI of 108%-116%) for 
ciprofloxacin. The PTA for amoxicillin and ciprofloxacin did not differ between 
the two phases and was adequate to treat common pathogens.
CONCLUSIONS: The acute phase of infection in non-critically ill febrile patients 
does not influence the exposure to, or PTA of, orally administered amoxicillin 
and ciprofloxacin. This might justify earlier IV-to-oral switching.

© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of British 
Society for Antimicrobial Chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.1093/jac/dkac401
PMCID: PMC9890209
PMID: 36433818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. J Periodontol. 2002 Oct;73(10):1188-96. doi: 10.1902/jop.2002.73.10.1188.

Rationale for use of antibiotics in periodontics.

Walker C(1), Karpinia K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Biology, University of Florida, Gainesville 32610, USA. 
walkerc1@ufl.edu

Comment in
    J Periodontol. 2003 Apr;74(4):566; author reply 566. doi: 
10.1902/jop.2003.74.4.566.

The purpose of this review is to provide the clinician with some practical 
rationale for the selection and use of antibiotics in the treatment of 
destructive periodontal diseases. We have attempted to integrate approximately 
20 years of periodontal literature describing antibiotic therapy with personal 
experience and 21st century ideas. This article addresses antibiotic use during 
treatment of aggressive periodontitis with emphasis on juvenile disease and 
adult refractory diseases. The literature review revealed few large, controlled 
studies that compared efficacy of adjunctive antibiotic use to mechanical 
therapy alone. Even fewer studies evaluated the efficacy of one antibiotic 
relative to another. However, based on the evidence available, certain 
conclusions were drawn. Adjunctive use of an antibiotic along with mechanical 
debridement is recommended for the treatment of Actinobacillus 
actinomycetemcomitans-associated periodontitis as an acceptable therapeutic 
regimen. Due to the emergence of tetracycline-resistant A. 
actinomycetemcomitans, the combination of metronidazole and amoxicillin may be 
preferable. In aggressive refractory periodontitis, compelling evidence exists 
that the use of an appropriate adjunctive antibiotic frequently gives a more 
favorable clinical response than mechanical therapy alone. Unfortunately, the 
selection of antibiotic is not as clear and is probably case-dependent. Positive 
responses have been reported with amoxicillin/clavulanic acid, clindamycin, 
metronidazole, and the combination therapy metronidazole plus amoxicillin. The 
introduction of local delivery antibiotics specifically for the treatment of 
periodontitis offers a novel concept for the treatment of localized disease. The 
latter, in particular, may prove useful in the treatment of recurrent disease 
activity or where only a few individual sites are involved.

DOI: 10.1902/jop.2002.73.10.1188
PMID: 12416778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Allergy Asthma Proc. 2019 Jan 1;40(1):57-61. doi: 10.2500/aap.2019.40.4184.

Direct oral amoxicillin challenge without preliminary skin testing in adult 
patients with allergy and at low risk with reported penicillin allergy.

Kuruvilla M(1), Shih J(1), Patel K(1), Scanlon N(2).

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Allergy/Immunology, Emory University, Atlanta, 
Georgia.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia.

Introduction: Ten percent of hospitalized patients report penicillin allergy; 
however, recent studies indicate that ∼98% of these patients are not acutely 
hypersensitive. Unconfirmed penicillin allergy poses public health risks, and an 
evaluation of penicillin allergy labels is recommended to improve antibiotic 
stewardship. Although the most widely accepted protocol is penicillin skin 
testing, followed by oral amoxicillin challenge, time constraints and resources 
may preclude this. Recent literature supports the safety and efficacy of direct 
oral amoxicillin challenge in individuals at low risk. Methods: We 
retrospectively evaluated direct oral challenge acceptance and outcomes in 
eligible adult outpatients with allergy and with a penicillin allergy label over 
a 6-month period. Direct oral amoxicillin challenge was recommended in patients 
with a history of benign rash, benign somatic symptoms, or unknown history 
associated with the last penicillin exposure >12 months ago. Those with severe 
reactions or reactions within 12 months of evaluation were not challenged. The 
patients were monitored for 60 minutes after challenge and were discharged with 
instructions to call in the event of a delayed reaction. Results: There were 50 
of 355 adults (14%) with a penicillin allergy label seen by a single allergist; 
of these patients, 38 (76%) met our criteria for a direct oral challenge. The 
index penicillin associated reactions were mostly remote, and 44 subjects (88%) 
reported reactions >10 years earlier. Four patients (8%) were de-labeled based 
on history alone. Twenty subjects (40%) consented to challenge in the clinic, 
and none developed immediate, or to our knowledge, delayed hypersensitivity 
reactions. Three of 20 patients (15%) developed self-limited subjective symptoms 
that were not deemed to constitute true immunoglobulin E mediated 
hypersensitivity. A total of 24 patients (48%) had the penicillin allergy label 
removed from their medical record. Conclusion: This study added to the 
accumulating body of evidence that supports the safety and efficacy of direct 
provocative challenge without preliminary skin testing to exclude penicillin 
allergy in individuals at low risk. Larger prospective studies are necessary to 
confirm these observations.

DOI: 10.2500/aap.2019.40.4184
PMID: 30582497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Spectrochim Acta A Mol Biomol Spectrosc. 2016 May 15;161:64-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.saa.2016.02.028. Epub 2016 Mar 2.

Different spectrophotometric methods applied for the analysis of binary mixture 
of flucloxacillin and amoxicillin: A comparative study.

Attia KA(1), Nassar MW(1), El-Zeiny MB(2), Serag A(3).

Author information:
(1)Pharmaceutical Analytical Chemistry Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Al-Azhar 
University, 11751, Nasr City, Cairo, Egypt.
(2)Analytical Chemistry Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Modern University for 
Technology and Information (MTI), 12582, Al Hadaba Al Wosta, Cairo, Egypt.
(3)Pharmaceutical Analytical Chemistry Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Al-Azhar 
University, 11751, Nasr City, Cairo, Egypt. Electronic address: 
Ahmedserag777@hotmail.com.

Three different spectrophotometric methods were applied for the quantitative 
analysis of flucloxacillin and amoxicillin in their binary mixture, namely, 
ratio subtraction, absorbance subtraction and amplitude modulation. A 
comparative study was done listing the advantages and the disadvantages of each 
method. All the methods were validated according to the ICH guidelines and the 
obtained accuracy, precision and repeatability were found to be within the 
acceptable limits. The selectivity of the proposed methods was tested using 
laboratory prepared mixtures and assessed by applying the standard addition 
technique. So, they can be used for the routine analysis of flucloxacillin and 
amoxicillin in their binary mixtures.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.saa.2016.02.028
PMID: 26950503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. J Cancer Res Ther. 2022 Dec;18(Supplement):S170-S176. doi: 
10.4103/jcrt.JCRT_1654_20.

Perioperative antimicrobial prophylaxis in clean-contaminated head and neck 
squamous cell cancer surgeries: Is less better?

Kohli P(1), Penumadu P(1), Shukkur N(1), Sivasanker M(2), Balasubramanian A(1), 
Ganapathy S(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgical Oncology, JIPMER, Puducherry, India.
(2)Department of Surgery, Royal Liverpool University Hospitals NHS Trust, 
Merseyside, England.
(3)Department of Biostatistics, JIPMER, Puducherry, India.

INTRODUCTION: Judicious use of antibiotics and stringent adherence to practice 
guidelines is the need of the hour as antibiotic resistance is a rampant 
problem. Despite several reports in the literature describing the optimal 
duration of antibiotics, there is no consensus. A "one for all" protocol may be 
impractical and hence the guidelines need to be tweaked to take into 
consideration local factors. We designed a protocol for prophylactic antibiotics 
in clean-contaminated head and neck cancer squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) 
surgeries to prevent unchecked abuse and evaluated its feasibility.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Two hundred consecutive patients who underwent a 
clean-contaminated surgery for HNSCC between January 2017 and December 2019 were 
included. Single-dose intravenous amoxicillin-clavulanate at induction followed 
by three doses of amoxicillin-clavulanate, metronidazole, and amikacin in the 
postoperative period was used. Adherence to the antibiotic protocol was assessed 
from a prospectively maintained database.
RESULTS: The mean age was 55.99 ± 11.71 years. The protocol was effective in 70% 
of the patients with an acceptable surgical site infection (SSI) rate of 12%. 
Flap-related complications (9.5%) and oro-cutaneous fistula (5%) were common 
causes of prolonged antibiotics. On univariate analysis, blood transfusion (P = 
.014), clinical stage at presentation (P = .028), patients undergoing 
reconstruction (P = .001), longer operative time (P = .009), and pathological T 
stage (P = 0.03) were at higher chance of deviating from the protocol. On 
multivariate analysis, age more than 50 years (OR: 2.14, 95% CI: (1.01, 4.52); P 
value = 0.047) and reconstruction (OR: 3.36, 95% CI: (1.21, 9.32); P value = 
0.020) were found to be significant.
CONCLUSIONS: A three-dose perioperative antibiotic prophylaxis in 
clean-contaminated HNSCC surgeries is feasible. Similar protocols should be 
developed and validated at other major centers to limit the unnecessary use of 
antibiotics and prevent the emergence of antibiotic resistance.

DOI: 10.4103/jcrt.JCRT_1654_20
PMID: 36510960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. J Urol. 1975 May;113(5):585-94. doi: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)59530-0.

New developments in the diagnosis and treatment of urinary tract infections.

Kunn CM.

Not long ago it was customary to expect an atmosphere of confrontation and 
controversy when urologic surgeons and infectious disease physicians met at 
conferences and symposia. Even more often each group exhibited an attitude of 
"benign neglect" towards the other. Times have changed in large part because of 
the efforts of the leadership group in urology. The establishment of an Advisory 
Board for this Journal, drawn from non-urological disciplines, is one example of 
the effort being made to draw together all concerned with urinary tract 
infections and pyelonephritis. I have been asked to review some practical 
up-to-date matters relating to the diagnosis and treatment of urinary tract 
infections and pyelonephritis from the point of view of an infectious disease 
physician. However, it may be helpful to begin with a synthesis of current 
concepts of the natural history of urinary tract infection, since the need for 
early diagnosis and the tactics for treatment depend largely on our expectations 
for the patient. This synthesis requires definition of terms that are acceptable 
to a wide variety of disciplines. The review would then focus on new methods for 
screening and office diagnosis, antimicrobial sensitivity tests, localization of 
infection and indications for urologic investigation, particularly in relation 
to vesicoureteral reflux. New developments in treatment of urinary tract 
infections will be discussed. Special attention will be given to areas in which 
we are ignorant and require more information. Last, I will direct my attention 
to the problem of the urinary catheter, hoping to arrive at a synthesis of the 
situation which will tell it like it is but avoid overstating the case.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)59530-0
PMID: 1092884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Ann Otol Rhinol Laryngol. 2020 Jan;129(1):5-11. doi: 10.1177/0003489419867976. 
Epub 2019 Aug 8.

Intranasal Septal Splints: Prophylactic Antibiotics and Nasal Microbiology.

Ritter A(1)(2), Alkan U(1)(2), Yahav D(2)(3), Soudry E(1)(2), Reifen E(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, Rabin Medical Center, 
Petah Tikva, Israel.
(2)Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(3)Infectious Diseases Unit, Rabin Medical Center, Petah Tikva, Israel.

OBJECTIVES: Intranasal septal splints are often used in nasal septal surgeries. 
Routine use of postoperative antibiotics is an accepted practice, although data 
regarding its efficacy in preventing postsurgical complications are limited. 
This study aimed to examine bacterial colonization on septal splints following 
prophylactic antibiotic therapy and the association with postoperative 
infections.
METHODS: Fifty-five patients underwent septoplasty by a single surgeon between 
March 2015 and April 2016. All had intranasal septal splints and were given 
antibiotic prophylaxis for 7 days until removal of splints. Nasal cultures were 
taken before surgery, and septal splints were examined for bacterial 
colonization following their removal.
RESULTS: Thirty-six patients (65%) had positive nasal culture prior to surgery. 
The most common isolates were Staphylococcus aureus (30%) and Enterobacteriaceae 
species (66%). All these patients had postoperative bacterial colonization on 
septal splints. In 15 patients with negative preoperative cultures, bacteria 
were isolated postoperatively. An increased resistance profile was documented 
postoperatively in 9 patients (16%), including two with multidrug resistance. In 
two of these patients preoperative wild-type strains acquired antibiotic 
resistance postoperatively. No adverse drug reactions to antibiotics were 
reported.
CONCLUSIONS: Increased bacterial growth and emergence of resistant strains were 
observed on intranasal septal splints despite prophylactic antibiotic treatment. 
Nonetheless, this did not translate into clinical infection. Thus, considering 
antibiotics overuse and increasing bacterial resistance, further research is 
needed to determine the role of antibiotic prophylaxis in the setting of 
intranasal splints.

DOI: 10.1177/0003489419867976
PMID: 31390881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Arch Pediatr. 2007 Oct;14 Suppl 2:S122-7. doi: 10.1016/s0929-693x(07)80046-7.

[Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of antimicrobial therapy used in child 
osteoarticular infections].

[Article in French]

Cohen R(1), Grimprel E.

Author information:
(1)Groupe de Pathologie Infectieuse Pédiatrique de la Société Française de 
Pédiatrie, Hôpital Armand-Trousseau, 26 av Docteur Arnold-Netter 75012 Paris, 
France. robert.cohen@wanadoo.fr

The progress in the knowledge of antibiotic action mechanisms have led to 
determine phamacodynamic/pharmacokinetic (PK/PD) parameters predictive of 
antibiotic efficacy in bacterial infections. According to the antibiotic 
compound, the implicated bacterial specie, the localization of the infection, 
the severity of the disease, these parameters could vary. The PK/PD parameters 
described in this paper focus only on blood compartment and S. aureus, (main 
bacteria implicated in bone and joint tissue infections). All beta-lactamase 
resistant beta-lactam compounds given by IV route, if they are prescribed at the 
good dosage and frequency, fulfill these PK/PD parameters. In contrast, by oral 
route, M penicillins and cefuroxime-axetil should not be considered as 
acceptable regimens. Only amoxicillin-clavulanate and some first generation 
cephalosporin compounds fulfill the PK/PD parameters predictive of clinical 
efficacy if S. aureus strains are methicillin susceptible and dosages of 
cephalosporins are increased. Clindamycin is a very interesting alternative, if 
the strains are susceptible to macrolides.

DOI: 10.1016/s0929-693x(07)80046-7
PMID: 17956820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. J Pediatr Surg. 2022 Jun;57(6):1115-1118. doi: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2022.01.032. 
Epub 2022 Jan 31.

Amoxycillin/Clavulanic acid monotherapy in complicated paediatric appendicitis: 
Good enough?

van Coller R Dr(1), Arnold M Dr(2), le Roux H Dr(2), Tootla H Dr(3), Dix-Peek S 
Dr(4), Nuttal J Dr(3), Hidarah AB Dr(2), de Klerk O Dr(2), Solwa A Dr(2), 
English N Dr(2), Ismail T Dr(2), Bangani K Dr(2), Schroeder H Dr(2), Kaskar R 
Dr(2), Payne M Dr(2), Pretorius S Mr(5), Gibson B Ms(2), Cox S Prof(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Paediatric Surgery, University of Cape Town/ Red Cross War 
Memorial Children's Hospital, Cape Town, Western Cape, South Africa. Electronic 
address: rochelle.vc@gmail.com.
(2)Division of Paediatric Surgery, University of Cape Town/ Red Cross War 
Memorial Children's Hospital, Cape Town, Western Cape, South Africa.
(3)Division of Medical Microbiology, University of Cape Town/National Health 
Laboratory Service, (Microbiology), Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital, 
Cape Town, Western Cape, South Africa.
(4)Division of Orthopedic Surgery, University of Cape Town/ Red Cross War 
Memorial Children's Hospital, Cape Town, Western Cape, South Africa.
(5)Pharmacy, University of Cape Town/ Red Cross War Memorial Children's 
Hospital, Cape Town, Western Cape, South Africa.

BACKGROUND: Antibiotic choice for complicated appendicitis should be based on 
both microbiological effectiveness as well as ease of administration and cost 
especially in lower resourced settings. Data is limited on comparative morbidity 
outcomes for antibiotics with similar microbiological spectrum of activity. 
Incidence and morbidity of surgical site infection after appendectomy for 
complicated appendicitis was assessed after protocol change from triple 
antibiotic (ampicillin, gentamycin, and metronidazole) regimen to single agent 
(amoxycillin/clavulanic acid).
METHODS: Surgical site infection (SSI) rate, relook surgery rate and length of 
hospital stay were retrospectively compared in patients treated for acute 
appendicitis preceding (2014, 2015; "triple-therapy, TT") and following (2017, 
2018; "single agent, SA") antibiotic protocol change.
RESULTS: The rate of complicated appendicitis was similar between groups; 72.6% 
in TT and 66% in SA (p = 0.239). Significantly, SSI occurred in 22.7% of the SA 
group compared to 13.3% in TT group (OR 1.920, 95% CI 1.000-3.689, p = 0.048). 
Use of laparoscopy increased from 31% in TT to 89% in SA, but with subgroup 
analysis this was not associated with increased SSI (17.3% in open and 20.6% in 
laparoscopic; OR 0.841, 95% CI 0.409-1.728, p = 0.637). Relook rate (OR 1.444, 
95% CI 0.595-3.507, p = 0.093) length of hospital stay (U = 6859, z = -1.163, 
p = 0.245), and ICU admission (U = 7683, z = 0.634 p = 0.522) were equivocal. 
Neither group had mortalities.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite increased SSI with SA, overall morbidity relating to ICU 
admission, relook rate and length of hospital stay was similar in both groups. 
More prospective research is required to confirm equivalent overall morbidity 
and that single agent therapy is more cost-effective with acceptable clinical 
outcomes.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2022.01.032
PMID: 35241278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Am J Emerg Med. 2022 Nov;61:12-17. doi: 10.1016/j.ajem.2022.08.023. Epub 2022 
Aug 14.

Assessment of nationally recommended antibiotics for treatment of UTI in 
U.S.-Mexico border emergency departments.

Davis WH(1), Magee MR(1), Monks SM(2), Geno KA(3), Crawford SB(4).

Author information:
(1)Paul Foster School of Medicine, Texas Tech University Health Sciences El 
Paso, El Paso, TX, USA.
(2)Department of Emergency Medicine, Texas Tech University Health Sciences El 
Paso, El Paso, TX, USA.
(3)Department of Pathology, Texas Tech University Health Sciences El Paso, El 
Paso, TX, USA.
(4)Department of Emergency Medicine, Texas Tech University Health Sciences El 
Paso, El Paso, TX, USA. Electronic address: scott.crawford@ttuhsc.edu.

BACKGROUND: Urinary tract infections (UTIs) seen in the emergency department are 
commonly treated as an outpatient with oral antibiotics. Given that antibiotics 
are available for over-the-counter purchase in Mexico, there is speculation that 
potential misuse and overuse of antibiotics in United States-Mexico border areas 
could lead to antibiotic resistance patterns that would render some empiric 
treatments for UTIs less effective. The purpose of this study was to examine the 
effectiveness of Infectious Disease Society of America (IDSA) 
guideline-recommended antibiotics for treatment of outpatient UTI diagnosed in 
the emergency department. Data were collected from a county hospital on the 
U.S.-Mexico border with a metropolitan area of over 2 million people. Secondary 
analysis included frequency of urine culture isolated, resistance rates of urine 
pathogens, and prescriber habits.
METHODS: This study was a retrospective chart review of adult patients diagnosed 
and treated for UTI from August 1, 2019, to February 29, 2020. Culture results 
of included patients were analyzed against in vitro-tested antibiotics. 
Bacterial isolate frequency, resistance rates, and prescribing habits were 
collected.
RESULTS: A total of 985 patient charts were reviewed, of which 520 patients met 
inclusion criteria for analysis of prescribing habits. Of these, 329 positive 
bacterial culture growths were included in the analysis of antibiotic resistance 
rates. Oral antibiotics with comparatively lower resistance rates were 
amoxicillin/clavulanate, cefdinir, cefuroxime, and nitrofurantoin. Oral 
antibiotics with notably high resistance rates included 
trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX), tetracycline, ciprofloxacin, 
levofloxacin, and cephalexin. Nitrofurantoin was prescribed most frequently for 
outpatient treatment of UTI/cystitis (41.6%) while cephalexin was the most 
commonly prescribed antibiotic for outpatient treatment of pyelonephritis (50%).
CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest that, while part of standard IDSA guidelines, 
fluoroquinolones and TMP-SMX are not ideal empiric antibiotics for treatment of 
outpatient UTI in the U.S.-Mexico border region studied due to high resistance 
rates. Although not listed as first line agents per current IDSA 
recommendations, 2nd and 3rd generation cephalosporins, and 
amoxicillin/clavulanate would be acceptable options given resistance patterns 
demonstrated in accordance with IDSA allowance for tailoring selection to local 
resistance. Nitrofurantoin appears to be consistent with recommendations and 
demonstrates a favorable resistance profile for treatment of outpatient UTI 
within this region.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajem.2022.08.023
PMID: 36027632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest All authors 
declare they have no conflict of interest or relevant financial relationship 
related to the presented research.


131. Gastroenterol Hepatol Bed Bench. 2022 Spring;15(2):172-178.

Efficacy of 14-day concomitant quadruple therapy and 14-day high-dose dual 
therapy on H. pylori eradication.

Yadollahi B(1), Valizadeh Toosi SM(1), Bari Z(1), Fakheri H(1), Maleki I(1), 
Taghvaei T(1), Hosseini V(1), Kazemi A(1), Shokri-Afra H(1).

Author information:
(1)Non-communicable Diseases Institute, Gut and Liver Research Center, 
Mazandaran University of Medical Sciences, Sari, Iran.

AIM: We compared the efficacy of two different regimens for H. pylori 
eradication in areas with high antibiotic resistance.
BACKGROUND: Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) is a gram-negative bacillus that has 
a strong association with chronic gastritis and peptic ulcer disease. Different 
regimens with varying degrees of effectiveness have been used for H. pylori 
eradication.
METHODS: The current randomized controlled trial (RCT) randomly assigned 217 
patients who had indications for H. pylori eradication therapy to two groups. 
One group were administered concomitant quadruple therapy (pantoprazole 40 mg, 
amoxicillin 1 gr, clarithromycin 500 mg, and metronidazole 500 mg every 12 
hours) for 14 days, and the second group received 14 days of high-dose dual 
therapy, consisting of esomeprazole 40 mg BID and amoxicillin 1g TDS. H. pylori 
eradication was assessed eight weeks after the end of treatment.
RESULTS: H. pylori eradication rates by PP analysis for 14 days concomitant 
quadruple therapy and high-dose dual therapy were 88.6% (95% CI, 80.3-92.8) and 
82.2% (95% CI, 74.8-89.5), respectively (p = 0.19). According to 
intention-to-treat (ITT) analysis, the eradication rates were 81.6% (95% CI, 
74.5-88.6) and 80.6% (95% CI, 73-88.1), respectively (p = 0.58). Overall drug 
side effects were 20.8% in high-dose dual therapy and 49.6% in concomitant 
quadruple therapy (p < 0.001).
CONCLUSION: Fourteen days concomitant quadruple therapy can be considered as a 
relatively acceptable regimen for H. pylori eradication in areas with high 
clarithromycin and metronidazole resistance. It seems that high-dose dual 
therapy could be a promising alternative regimen in these areas.

©2022 RIGLD, Research Institute for Gastroenterology and Liver Diseases.

PMCID: PMC9275744
PMID: 35845300

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


132. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2013 May;14(7):843-61. doi: 
10.1517/14656566.2013.782286. Epub 2013 Mar 29.

A review of rescue regimens after clarithromycin-containing triple therapy 
failure (for Helicobacter pylori eradication).

Marin AC(1), McNicholl AG, Gisbert JP.

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterology Unit, Hospital Universitario de La Princesa and Instituto de 
Investigación Sanitaria Princesa, Playa de Mojácar 29, Urb. Bonanza, 28669 
Boadilla del Monte, Madrid, Spain.

INTRODUCTION: Helicobacter pylori infection is generally treated with therapies 
that include a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) and, at least, two antibiotics being 
clarithromycin one of the most used. Antibiotic resistance, mainly to 
clarithromycin, seems to be increasing in many geographical areas, and this 
factor is considered a main cause leading to a treatment failure when the later 
therapies contain this antibiotic again. As clarithromycin is a key antibiotic 
in the eradication of H. pylori, the election of the rescue treatment is a 
matter of debate.
AREAS COVERED: The aim of this study is to systematically review the efficacy of 
the second-line rescue therapies after the failure of a first-line 
clarithromycin-containing regimen, and to link this information with the 
previous first-line treatment. Also, authors performed meta-analyses and inverse 
variance analyses with studies that met the inclusion criteria: first-line 
treatment must specify type and dosage; diagnosis and eradication confirmation 
must be performed by generally accepted tests; and second-line treatment must 
not be assigned depending on the antibiotic susceptibility or resistance.
EXPERT OPINION: In a routine clinical practice setting, the most adequate 
second-line treatment consists in a 10-day regimen of levofloxacin- 
amoxicillin-PPI given twice daily, unless regional or new data show high 
quinolone resistance. Other good options are the bismuth quadruple regimen and a 
metronidazole-amoxicillin-PPI therapy.

DOI: 10.1517/14656566.2013.782286
PMID: 23537368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Am J Trop Med Hyg. 2018 Aug;99(2):477-481. doi: 10.4269/ajtmh.17-0779. Epub 2018 
Jun 7.

Toward Point-of-Care Drug Quality Assurance in Developing Countries: Comparison 
of Liquid Chromatography and Infrared Spectroscopy Quantitation of a Small-Scale 
Random Sample of Amoxicillin.

Alotaibi N(1), Overton S(1), Curtis S(1), Nickerson JW(2)(3), Attaran A(2), 
Gilmer S(4), Mayer PM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biomolecular Sciences, University of Ottawa, 
Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Faculty of Law, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Bruyère Research Institute, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.
(4)World Hope Canada, Kemptville, Ontario, Canada.

Substandard antibiotics are thought to be a major threat to public health in 
developing countries and a cause of antimicrobial resistance. However, assessing 
quality outside of a laboratory setting, using simple equipment, is challenging. 
The aim of this study was to validate the use of a portable Fourier transform 
infrared (FT-IR) spectrometer for the identification of substandard antibiotics. 
Results are presented for amoxicillin packages from Haiti, Ghana, Sierra Leone, 
Democratic Republic of Congo, India, Papua New Guinea, and Ethiopia collected 
over the course of 6 months in 2017, including two field trips with the FT-IR to 
Ghana and Sierra Leone. Canadian samples were used as a control. Regarding drug 
quality, of 290 individual capsules of amoxicillin analyzed, 13 were found to be 
substandard with total active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) lying outside the 
acceptable range of 90-110%. Of these 13, four were below 80% API. The FT-IR 
reliably identified these outliers and was found to yield results in good 
agreement with the established pharmacopeia liquid chromatography protocol. We 
conclude that the portable FT-IR may be suitable to intercept substandard 
antibiotics in developing countries where more sophisticated techniques are not 
readily available.

DOI: 10.4269/ajtmh.17-0779
PMCID: PMC6090331
PMID: 29893196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Can J Gastroenterol. 1997 Oct;11(7):589-96. doi: 10.1155/1997/975469.

Helicobacter pylori: from bench to bedside.

Chiba N(1), Matisko A, Sinclair P, Thomson AB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Alberta, Edmonton.

With the exponential increase in research in the field of Helicobacter pylori a 
paradigm shift has occurred. It is now recognized that H pylori is a chronic 
infection of the stomach causing inflammation. Some patients remain 
asymptomatic, while others may develop dyspepsia, duodenal or gastric ulcer, 
gastric cancer or a mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma. However, the 
role of H pylori in contributing to nonulcer dyspepsia or nonsteroidal 
anti-inflammatory drug gastropathy remains controversial. An effective vaccine 
against H pylori is years away. Major interest has focused on the questions "who 
should be investigated and therefore treated" and "what is the latest gold 
standard for eradication of H pylori"? In Europe, guidelines have been developed 
to help the practitioner answer these important questions. Canadian guidelines 
will soon be available. For persons with known peptic ulcer disease there should 
be unequivocal acceptance that the good clinical practice of eradicating H 
pylori will result in substantial savings in health care expenses. The original 
'classical triple therapy' (bismuth, metronidazole and tetracycline [BMT]) has 
now been surpassed by the combination of a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) plus two 
antibiotics (metronidazole plus clarithromycin; amoxicillin plus clarithromycin; 
or amoxicillin plus metronidazole), each given twice a day for one week. In 
Canada, the regimen of omeprazole plus one antibiotic (amoxicillin or 
clarithromycin) was approved recently but gives an eradication rate that is 
lower than the current target of 90%. According to the European (Mäastricht) 
recommendations, if a single treatment attempt with PPI plus two antibiotics 
fails, PPI plus BMT is recommended.

DOI: 10.1155/1997/975469
PMID: 9395760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Helicobacter. 2022 Aug;27(4):e12896. doi: 10.1111/hel.12896. Epub 2022 Apr 25.

Optimization of vonoprazan-amoxicillin dual therapy for eradicating Helicobacter 
pyloriinfection in China: A prospective, randomized clinical pilot study.

Hu Y(1)(2), Xu X(1)(2), Ouyang YB(1)(2), He C(1)(2), Li NS(1)(2), Xie C(1)(2), 
Peng C(1)(2), Zhu ZH(1)(2), Xie Y(1)(2), Shu X(1)(2), Lu NH(1)(2), Zhu Y(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang 
University, Nanchang, China.
(2)JiangXi Clinical Research Center for Gastroenterology, Nanchang, China.

BACKGROUND: Vonoprazan-amoxicillin (VA) dual therapy has been shown to achieve 
acceptable cure rates for treatment of Helicobacter pylori(H. pylori) in Japan. 
Its effectiveness in other regions is unknown. We aimed to explore the efficacy 
of VA dual therapy as first-line treatment for H. pyloriinfection in China.
METHODS: This was a single center, prospective, randomized clinical pilot study 
conducted in China. Treatment naive H. pyloriinfected patients were randomized 
to receive either low- or high-dose amoxicillin-vonoprazan consisting of 
amoxicillin 1 g either b.i.d. or t.i.d plus VPZ 20 mg b.i.d for 7 or 10 days. 13 
C-urea breath tests were used to access the cure rate at least 4 weeks after 
treatment.
RESULTS: Three hundred and twenty-three patients were assessed, and 119 subjects 
were randomized. The eradication rates of b.i.d. amoxicillin for 7 and 10 days, 
t.i.d. amoxicillin for 7 and 10 days were 66.7% (16/24), 89.2% (33/37), 81.0% 
(17/21), and 81.1% (30/37) (p = .191) by intention-to-treat analysis, 
respectively, and 72.7% (16/22), 89.2% (33/37), 81.0% (17/21), and 81.1% (30/37) 
(p = .454) by per-protocol analysis, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Neither 7- or 10-day VA dual therapy with b.i.d. or t.i.d. 
amoxicillin provides satisfied efficacy as the first-line treatment for H. 
pyloriinfection in China. Further optimization is needed.

© 2022 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/hel.12896
PMID: 35466521 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Pharmaceutics. 2024 Sep 24;16(10):1242. doi: 10.3390/pharmaceutics16101242.

Development of Gastroretentive Floating Combination Tablets Containing 
Amoxicillin Trihydrate 500 mg and Levofloxacin 125 mg for Eradicating Resistant 
Helicobacter pylori.

Kim DH(1), Lee SW(2), Lee JH(1), Park JW(1), Park SM(1), Maeng HJ(3), Koo TS(4), 
Cho KH(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy and Inje Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences and 
Research, Inje University, 197 Inje-ro, Gimhae 50834, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Engineering, Inje University, 197 Inje-ro, 
Gimhae 50834, Republic of Korea.
(3)College of Pharmacy, Gachon University, 191 Hambakmoei-ro, Yeonsu-gu, Incheon 
21936, Republic of Korea.
(4)Graduate School of New Drug Discovery and Development, Chungnam National 
University, 99 Daehak-ro, Yuseong-gu, Daejeon 34134, Republic of Korea.

Background/Objectives: The aim of this work was to prepare and characterize 
gastroretentive floating combination tablets (GRCTs) containing 500 mg of 
amoxicillin trihydrate (AMX) and 125 mg of levofloxacin (LVX) that provide 
sustained drug release and stability at gastric pH levels for the eradication of 
resistant Helicobacter pylori. Method: GRCTs were prepared with low-density 
excipients and hydrophilic swellable polymers, including hydroxypropyl 
methylcellulose (HPMC) of various viscosities, polyethylene oxide (PEO), and 
carboxymethylcellulose (CMC), by the direct compression method. The prepared 
GRCTs were investigated and optimized in terms of pH stability, tablet hardness, 
floating lag time and total floating time, drug release rate, gel strength. 
Results: AMX and LVX in GRCT were stable at the HP eradication target pH above 
4.0. The effervescent GRCT composition (AMX/LVX/HPMC [4000 
cP]/CMC/microcrystalline cellulose/citric acid/sodium bicarbonate/calcium 
silicate/silicon dioxide/magnesium stearate = 500/125/50/50/125/40/60/30/10/10, 
w/w) yielded acceptable hardness (>6 kp), reduced floating lag time (<5 s), a 
long floating duration (>12 h), and sustained release rates of AMX and LVX (>90% 
until 12 h). This optimized GRCT had a gel strength of 107.33 ± 10.69 g and pH > 
4.0, which maintained the tablets' shape and AMX stability for 12 h. 
Conclusions: Collectively, the formulated effervescent GRCTs combining AMX and 
LVX represented a promising candidate dosage form for eradicating resistant H. 
pylori.

DOI: 10.3390/pharmaceutics16101242
PMCID: PMC11510249
PMID: 39458574

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


137. Urology. 1992 Jan;39(1):1-11. doi: 10.1016/0090-4295(92)90032-r.

New considerations in treatment of urinary tract infections in adults.

Faro S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, 
Texas.

Urinary tract infections remain some of the most common infections observed in 
community- and hospital-based practices. Although most infections continue to be 
caused by enteric bacteria, a growing proportion of these infections are caused 
by pathogens often associated with sexually transmitted diseases, including 
those of nonbacterial and viral etiologies. Consequently, multiresistant strains 
have become more prevalent, and the clinician must respond with a rational 
approach to therapy, based on the selection of an effective and well-tolerated 
antibiotic. The emergence of the newer antibiotic classes, including the second 
and third-generation cephalosporins and the fluoroquinolones, has provided the 
clinician with agents that offer a broad spectrum of activity, good patient 
acceptance, a well-tolerated safety profile, and convenient dosage regimens due 
to their unique pharmacokinetic profiles. These drugs may be effective in 
single- or multiple-dose regimens, depending on the condition being treated, and 
these should be considered important drugs in the treatment of uncomplicated and 
complicated adult urinary tract infections.

DOI: 10.1016/0090-4295(92)90032-r
PMID: 1309472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Eur Arch Paediatr Dent. 2018 Feb;19(1):61-63. doi: 10.1007/s40368-017-0321-9. 
Epub 2018 Jan 13.

Localised aggressive periodontitis in a 3-year-old-boy.

Mass E(1), Hershkovitz F(2), Zilberman U(2).

Author information:
(1)Paediatric Dental Unit, Barzilai Medical University Center, 2nd Hahistadrut 
st., 7830604, Ashkelon, Israel. samile8@gmail.com.
(2)Paediatric Dental Unit, Barzilai Medical University Center, 2nd Hahistadrut 
st., 7830604, Ashkelon, Israel.

BACKGROUND: Localised aggressive periodontitis (LAgP), characterised by rapid 
attachment and bone loss, which may occur in children and adolescents, without 
clinical evidence of systemic disease.
CASE REPORT: Three-year-old boy was referred with excessive mobility of 83 and 
exfoliation of 73. Clinical examination revealed acceptable oral hygiene. Blood 
tests were performed to evaluate PMNs activity and the parents were advised to 
apply 0.2% chlorhexidine twice a day. One month later 83 was still excessively 
mobile. Blood tests were normal.
TREATMENT: A full mouth scaling and curettage were performed under general 
anaesthesia. Since 83 had been spontaneously exfoliated one day earlier, a 
biopsy was taken from its socket. The biopsy examination revealed granulation 
tissue with actinomyces colonies. A course of amoxicillin 250 mg three times a 
day for 7 days was prescribed. Cultures from periodontal pockets of the child's 
family members were found negative to Aggregatibacter actinomycetem comitans 
(Aa).
FOLLOW-UP: Examination 3 months later, no tooth mobility was observed and the 
cultures from the periodontal pockets were negative to Aa. Thereafter, the child 
was periodically reviewed every 3 months for 26 months with no signs of 
periodontal disease.
CONCLUSION: Amoxicillin combined with curettage around the involved teeth may be 
effective in LAgP treatment.

DOI: 10.1007/s40368-017-0321-9
PMID: 29332208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. J Obstet Gynaecol Can. 2023 Aug;45(8):574-580. doi: 10.1016/j.jogc.2023.05.026. 
Epub 2023 May 26.

Optimizing Cefazolin Prophylaxis in Obstetrical Patients with Reported 
Beta-Lactam Allergy Undergoing Cesarean Delivery.

Genis H(1), Li M(2), Eng-Chong M(3), Zaltz A(4), Tarshis J(5), Elligsen M(6), 
Leis JA(7), Lam PW(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON.
(2)Department of Anesthesia, Mount Sinai Hospital, Toronto, ON.
(3)Department of Infection Control and Prevention, Sunnybrook Health Sciences 
Centre, Toronto, ON.
(4)Division of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Sunnybrook Health Science Centre, 
Toronto, ON.
(5)Department of Anesthesia, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, Toronto, ON.
(6)Department of Pharmacy, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, Toronto, ON.
(7)Department of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON; Department of 
Infection Control and Prevention, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, Toronto, 
ON; Division of Infectious Diseases, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, Toronto, 
ON.
(8)Department of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON; Division of 
Infectious Diseases, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, Toronto, ON. Electronic 
address: Philip.lam@sunnybrook.ca.

OBJECTIVES: Evaluate the impact of an allergy history-guided algorithm for 
optimizing perioperative cefazolin use in patients with reported beta-lactam 
allergy undergoing cesarean delivery.
METHODS: The Allergy Clarification for Cefazolin Evidence-based Prescribing Tool 
(ACCEPT) was developed through consensus by allergists, anesthesiologists, and 
infectious diseases specialists, and implemented over a 2-month period (December 
1, 2018, to January 31, 2019). A segmented regression on monthly cefazolin use 
was conducted during the baseline (January 1 to November 30, 2018) and 
intervention (February 1 to December 31, 2019) periods to evaluate the impact of 
ACCEPT on the monthly use of perioperative cefazolin in patients with reported 
beta-lactam allergy undergoing cesarean delivery. The frequency of perioperative 
allergic reactions and surgical site infections was collected during both 
periods.
RESULTS: Of the 3128 eligible women who underwent a cesarean delivery, 282 (9%) 
reported a beta-lactam allergy. The most common beta-lactam allergens were 
penicillin (64.3%), amoxicillin (16.0%), and cefaclor (6.0%). The most 
frequently reported allergic reactions were rash (38.1%), hives (21.4%), and 
unknown (11.6%). Use of cefazolin increased from 52% (baseline) to 87% during 
the intervention period. Segmented regression analysis confirmed a statistically 
significant increase following implementation (incidence rate ratio 1.62, 95% CI 
1.19-2.21, P = 0.002). There was 1 perioperative allergic reaction in the 
baseline period and 2 during the intervention period. Cefazolin use remained 
high (92%) 2 years after algorithm implementation.
CONCLUSIONS: Implementation of a simple allergy history-guided algorithm in 
obstetrical patients with reported beta-lactam allergy resulted in a sustained 
increase in perioperative cefazolin prophylaxis.

Copyright © 2023 The Society of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists of Canada/La 
Société des obstétriciens et gynécologues du Canada. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jogc.2023.05.026
PMID: 37245613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Curr Opin Pulm Med. 1996 May;2(3):181-5. doi: 10.1097/00063198-199605000-00004.

Infective pathogenesis and outcomes in chronic bronchitis.

Ball P(1).

Author information:
(1)Infectious Diseases Unit, Victoria Hospital, Scotland, UK.

Bacterial infection is an important cause of exacerbations of chronic 
bronchitis, which can precipitate both direct toxic and host-mediated 
inflammatory bronchial epithelial damage. Repeated episodes, especially when 
caused by Haemophilus influenzae (the major pathogen) may be associated with 
more rapid deterioration in respiratory function. Criteria to identify patients 
with more severe disease and those who require either hospitalization or 
intensive care have been developed and can improve mortality. Antibiotic therapy 
has an accepted place in management, and predictors of the outcome of 
exacerbations have now been developed that allow severity staging of individual 
episodes. Nevertheless, despite the recognition of excessive failure rates due 
to increasing bacterial resistance and poor respiratory kinetics, many patients 
continue to receive empiric therapy with amoxicillin and other oral 
beta-lactams. Less empiric management guidelines, produced in Europe and North 
America and based on such criteria, now provide a framework for rational 
prescribing. Perhaps more importantly, it is now possible to design and perform 
placebo- and comparator-controlled studies of new antibacterials, such as the 
fluoroquinolones and azalides, with improved potency and kinetic properties. 
This will enable both an assessment of their place in the management of 
exacerbations in at-risk patients with severe disease and an evaluation of their 
longer-term role in the prevention of a decline in respiratory function 
consequent upon repeated and ineffectively treated exacerbations.

DOI: 10.1097/00063198-199605000-00004
PMID: 9363137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Med Oral. 2004 Aug-Oct;9(4):280-7.

Orofacial infections of odontogenic origin.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Gutiérrez-Pérez JL(1), Perea-Pérez EJ, Romero-Ruiz MM, Girón-González JA.

Author information:
(1)Hospital Virgen del Rocío de Sevilla, Facultad de Odontología, Universidad de 
Sevilla, Spain. jlgp@us.es

The polymicrobial nature of the odontogenic infections as well as the variety of 
associated conditions are a consequence of the diversity of the buccal 
microbiota and the anatomical and functional complexity of the oral cavity. In 
addition to this, all these processes can give way to multiple complications 
which range from the local to the systemic level. The appropriate choice of 
antibiotic and posology is crucial in the successful management of these 
infections. Pharmacodynamics provides those parameters that make it possible to 
assess how antibiotics activity varies in time. As a general rule, the first 
step in the initial management of orofacial infections in adults, included 
odontogenic infections, will be the administration of 875 mg of amoxicillin and 
125 mg of clavulanic every 8 hours. Therapeutic compliance is paramount to avoid 
resistance, therefore patient acceptance must be sought. In this sense, it has 
been proved that Augmentine Plus (2000/125) every twelve hours both as 
profylaxis and as treatment significantly decreases the rate of infective 
complications associated to extraction of the third molar.

PMID: 15292865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Praxis (Bern 1994). 2004 Dec 22;93(51-52):2135-41. doi: 
10.1024/0369-8394.93.51.2135.

[Helicobacter pylori: reasons for eradication].

[Article in German]

Schuster M(1).

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik, Fachbereich Gastroenterologie, Städtische Kliniken 
Esslingen, Akademisches Lehrkrankenhaus der Universität Tübingen. 
mjschuster@web.de

Helicobacter pylori infection has been recognized as the most important 
pathogenetic principal of peptic ulcer disease, atrophic gastritis, gastric 
adenocarcinoma and MALT lymphoma. At the moment efforts are made to clarify it's 
role in functional dyspepsia, and gastro-esophageal reflux disease. The complex 
interactions between H. pylori infection and NSAIDs is another field of ongoing 
research. Diagnosis and eradication therapy are standardized. Established 
indications are peptic ulcer disease, low-grade gastric MALT lymphoma, early 
gastric cancer treated by mucosal resection and partial gastrectomy for gastric 
cancer. Atrophic gastritis, known to be a precancerous lesion, as well as first 
degree relatives of patients with gastric cancer is another widely accepted 
indication for eradication therapy. The recommended eradication regimens combine 
a proton pump inhibitor with clarithromycin and either amoxicillin or 
metronidazole--for a week.

DOI: 10.1024/0369-8394.93.51.2135
PMID: 15672764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Ital J Pediatr. 2011 Jan 31;37:10. doi: 10.1186/1824-7288-37-10.

Update on the management of acute pharyngitis in children.

Regoli M(1), Chiappini E, Bonsignori F, Galli L, de Martino M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sciences for Woman and Child's Health, University of Florence, 
Florence, Italy. marta.regoli@hotmail.it

Streptococcal pharyngitis is a very common pathology in paediatric age all over 
the world. Nevertheless there isn't a joint agreement on the management of this 
condition. Some authors recommend to perform a microbiological investigation in 
suspected bacterial cases in order to treat the confirmed cases with antibiotics 
so to prevent suppurative complications and acute rheumatic fever. Differently, 
other authors consider pharyngitis, even streptococcal one, a benign, 
self-limiting disease. Consequently they wouldn't routinely perform 
microbiological tests and, pointing to a judicious use of antibiotics, they 
would reserve antimicrobial treatment to well-selected cases. It has been 
calculated that the number of patients needed to treat to prevent one 
complication after upper respiratory tract infections (including sore throat), 
was over 4000. Even the use of the Centor score, in order to evaluate the risk 
of streptococcal infection, is under debate and the interpretation of the test 
results may vary considerably. Penicillin is considered all over the world as 
first line treatment, but oral amoxicillin is also accepted and, due to its 
better palatability, can be a suitable option. Macrolides should be reserved to 
the rare cases of proved allergy to β-lactams. Cephalosporins can be used in 
patients allergic to penicillin (with the exception of type I hypersensibility) 
and have been also proposed to treat the relapses.

DOI: 10.1186/1824-7288-37-10
PMCID: PMC3042010
PMID: 21281502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Eur J Hosp Pharm. 2023 Mar;30(2):64-69. doi: 10.1136/ejhpharm-2021-002937. Epub 
2021 Dec 3.

Widening the net: a literature review of antimicrobial agents with potential 
suitability for outpatient parenteral antimicrobial therapy services-the 
importance of storage and stability.

Jenkins A(1)(2), Shanu S(3), Jamieson C(3), Santillo M(4).

Author information:
(1)Pharmacy Department, University Hospitals Birmingham NHS Foundation Trust, 
Birmingham, UK abi.jenkins2@nhs.net.
(2)School of Pharmacy, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK.
(3)Pharmacy Department, Sandwell and West Birmingham Hospitals NHS Trust, 
Birmingham, UK.
(4)Quality Assurance, South Devon Healthcare NHS Trust, Torquay, UK.

OBJECTIVES: Outpatient parenteral antimicrobial therapy (OPAT) services using 
continuous infusions (CIs) of antimicrobial agents in elastomeric devices 
require evidence of acceptable stability of the agent over the infusion period. 
A period of refrigerated storage of filled devices, followed by the CI period, 
is useful for OPAT services but can present a significant challenge to the 
stability of drugs. The aims of this study were to review fresh-filled stability 
data on antimicrobials which would be useful for OPAT services and to identify 
suitable candidates for further assessment.
METHODS: Searches identified papers relating to stability assessments of 
antimicrobials for immediate use tested above 31°C using a stability-indicating 
method.
RESULTS: We identified 18 stability studies published in 12 papers between 2015 
and 2020, assessing the stability of 10 agents. Aminopenicillins like ampicillin 
and amoxicillin appear too unstable for CI, while benzylpenicillin may benefit 
from buffering to improve its stability. Cephalosporins vary in their stability 
and CI periods of 24 hours may not be achievable. Of the carbapenems, there are 
insufficient data for doripenem but meropenem has been extensively studied and 
is unsuitable for CI longer than 6 hours. Voriconazole may be suitable for CI 
but needs further investigation.
CONCLUSIONS: Some drugs identified in our review are unlikely to be suitable for 
continuous infusion in OPAT services due to instability. Using a 'fresh-fill' 
approach, without refrigerated storage, may make some drugs useful while other 
agents should be considered for further assessment to Yellow Cover Document 
standards. The impact of buffering for penicillins should be assessed further.

© European Association of Hospital Pharmacists 2023. No commercial re-use. See 
rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/ejhpharm-2021-002937
PMCID: PMC9986931
PMID: 34862256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


145. Paediatr Drugs. 2003;5 Suppl 1:35-46.

Acute bacterial skin infections in pediatric medicine: current issues in 
presentation and treatment.

Hedrick J(1).

Author information:
(1)Physicians to Children & Adolescents, Bardstown, KY 40004, USA. 
jhedrick@bardstowncable.net

Bacterial skin and skin structure infections commonly encountered in children 
include impetigo, folliculitis, furunculosis, carbuncles, wound infections, 
abscesses, cellulitis, erysipelas, scarlet fever, acute paronychia, and 
staphylococcal scalded skin syndrome. If diagnosed early and treated 
appropriately, these infections are almost always curable, but some have the 
potential to cause serious complications such as septicemia, nephritis, carditis 
and arthritis if diagnosis is delayed and/or treatment is inadequate. During the 
initial evaluation, it is important to determine whether the infection is 
superficial or deep, and whether it is localized or spreading. Prompt treatment 
is essential if the infection appears to be spreading, as the sequelae can be 
life threatening. Once the proper diagnosis is made, the next important step is 
selecting the most appropriate therapy. In children presenting with mild or 
moderately severe bacterial skin and skin structure infections and not requiring 
inpatient management or urgent operative débridement, prompt provision of oral 
antimicrobial therapy avoids the risk of worsening infection or hospitalization. 
Empiric antimicrobial therapy should be directed at the most likely pathogens, 
(e.g. Staphylococcus aureus or Streptococcus pyogenes), although some infections 
(e.g. subcutaneous abscesses and cellulitis following animal or human bites) may 
have a polymicrobial origin. In choosing the appropriate antimicrobial therapy, 
one must take into account the resistance profile of the target pathogen, the 
agent's antibacterial profile and intrinsic activity against the target 
pathogen, and its pharmacokinetic properties (including absorption, elimination, 
and extent of tissue penetration). Other factors to consider include 
tolerability of the drug, convenience of the dosing regimen, and acceptability 
and palatability of the oral formulation administered. Any treatment plan for 
bacterial skin and skin structure infections should aim to minimize the 
emergence of resistant organisms so that the risk of their dissemination to 
others in the community is reduced. Oral antimicrobial agents currently 
available that may be considered include: beta-lactamase-stable penicillins 
(e.g. cloxacillin, dicloxacillin, and amoxicillin-clavulanate potassium), the 
macrolides (e.g. erythromycin, clarithromycin, and azithromycin), and the 
cephalosporins. Cephalosporins are now the most commonly used class, 
particularly because of increasing resistance among strains of S. pyogenes to 
erythromycin (and by implication, the other macrolides). The second- and 
third-generation cephalosporins have many advantages, with their extended 
spectra of antimicrobial activity, favorable pharmacokinetic and tolerability 
profiles, and convenient dosage schedules. The third-generation agent, cefdinir, 
has good activity against a broad range of likely pathogens, including 
staphylococci, a twice-daily administration schedule, a favorable efficacy and 
tolerability profile, is well accepted by young children when administered as an 
oral suspension, and may be an attractive alternative in the pediatric setting.

PMID: 14632104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Drug Saf. 1996 Jul;15(1):30-52. doi: 10.2165/00002018-199615010-00003.

A risk-benefit assessment of drugs used in the eradication of Helicobacter 
pylori infection.

Hackelsberger A(1), Malfertheiner P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Otto-von-Guericke University, Magdeburg, 
Germany.

Helicobacter pylori is the cause of chronic active gastritis and predisposes to 
peptic ulcer disease (PUD). Furthermore, H. pylori is linked to the pathogenesis 
of gastric lymphoma and gastric cancer. However, treatment of this infection has 
proven difficult. In the last decade, many antimicrobial compounds have been 
studied extensively as monotherapy as well as in combination with bismuth or 
acid-suppressive drugs. The individual drugs and the most important eradication 
regimens are discussed with special regard to their risks. In the past, highly 
complex multidrug regimens, fear of adverse effects and frequent eradication 
failures have hampered the broad acceptance of H. pylori-eradication therapies. 
Recently, new 1-week, low-dose combination regimens of 2 antibacterials with a 
proton pump inhibitor have consistently achieved eradication rates of 90% and 
more with an acceptably low rate of adverse effects. One week's standard triple 
therapy [tripotassium dicitrato bismuthate (or bismuth salicylate plus 
metronidazole plus tetracycline or amoxicillin) has been shown to be highly 
effective and tolerated better in combination with a proton pump inhibitor. This 
regimen is, however, more complex and has more adverse effects. Therefore, it is 
not recommended as first-line therapy. Equipped with these therapies physicians 
can now be strongly encouraged to use H. pylori eradication as the therapy of 
choice for patients with PUD and even extend this treatment to other H. 
pylori-associated disease conditions.

DOI: 10.2165/00002018-199615010-00003
PMID: 8862962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. J Health Popul Nutr. 2022 Nov 4;41(1):48. doi: 10.1186/s41043-022-00331-9.

Severe acute malnutrition's recovery rate still below the minimum standard: 
predictors of time to recovery among 6- to 59-month-old children in the 
healthcare setting of Southwest Ethiopia.

Eyi SE(1), Debele GR(2), Negash E(1), Bidira K(3), Tarecha D(4), Nigussie K(5), 
Hajure M(4), Ahmed MH(6), Kefeni BT(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, College of Health Sciences, Mattu University, 
Mattu, Ethiopia.
(2)Department of Public Health, College of Health Sciences, Mattu University, 
Mattu, Ethiopia. gebisa.roba123@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Nursing, College of Health Sciences, Mattu University, Mattu, 
Ethiopia.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, College of Health Sciences, Mattu University, 
Mattu, Ethiopia.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, College of Health and Medical Sciences, Haramaya 
University, Harar, Ethiopia.
(6)Department of Health Informatics, College of Health Sciences, Mattu 
University, Mattu, Ethiopia.

BACKGROUND: Despite currently available, scientifically proven treatments and 
national guideline, the SAM recovery rate is still considerably behind 
expectations, and it continues to have a devastating impact on under-five 
children. Identifying predictors of time to recovery might help to reach the 
minimal criterion established by the WHO and the national Sphere which decreases 
child mortality. Therefore, the current study assessed time to recovery and its 
predictors among children aged 6-59 months admitted with SAM in the Healthcare 
Setting of Southwest Ethiopia, 2021.
METHODS: An institutional-based multicenter retrospective follow-up study was 
conducted on 486 children aged 6 to 59 months admitted with SAM cases. Data were 
entered into Epi-Data version 4.6 and exported to Stata version 14 for further 
analysis. Cox-Snell residual plot was used to assess the final model's overall 
goodness of fit. Finally, a significant predictor of time to recovery was 
identified using Weibull survival regression model, at 0.05 significance level.
RESULT: Overall, 68.72 (95% CI 64.8, 73) of the children recovered and 4.32% 
died. The overall incidence density was 3.35/100-person day. Independent 
predictors of time to recovery were, starting complementary feeding at six 
months (AHR = 1.44; 95%, CI 1.073, 1.935), pneumonia at baseline (AHR = 1.33, 
95%, CI 1.049, 1.696), amoxicillin (AHR = 1.31, 95%, CI 1.021, 1.685), and folic 
acid supplementation (AHR = 1.82, 95% CI 1,237, 2.665).
CONCLUSION: The recovery from SAM at study area after a maximum of 60 days of 
treatment was below the accepted minimum standard. Complementary feeding, 
pneumonia, treated by amoxicillin, and folic acid supplementation were 
predictors of time to recovery. Therefore, providing folic acid and amoxicillin 
for those in need as well as the earliest possible treatment of concomitant 
conditions like pneumonia is highly recommended.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s41043-022-00331-9
PMCID: PMC9635096
PMID: 36333768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: There is no competing of interests related to 
this work.


148. Scand J Gastroenterol. 2023 Mar;58(3):227-231. doi: 
10.1080/00365521.2022.2119097. Epub 2022 Oct 3.

Single-capsule bismuth-based quadruple therapy as a rescue therapy for 
Helicobacter pylori eradication.

Correia C(1), Almeida N(1)(2), Leal C(3), Branquinho D(4), Fernandes A(3), 
Gravito-Soares E(1)(2), Calhau C(1), Bastos I(4), Vasconcelos H(3), Figueiredo 
P(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterology Department, Centro Hospitalar e Universitário de Coimbra, 
Coimbra, Portugal.
(2)Faculty of Medicine, University of Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal.
(3)Gastroenterology Department, Leiria Hospital Centre, Leiria, Portugal.
(4)Gastroenterology Department, Baixo Vouga Hospital Centre, Aveiro, Portugal.

INTRODUCTION: Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection is highly prevalent in 
Portugal and its eradication is formally recommended. However, the 
indiscriminate use of antimicrobials has led to a drastic rise in antibiotic 
resistance, with the failure of traditional eradication schemes. A 
single-capsule bismuth-based quadruple therapy became recently available in 
Portugal. This study aims to evaluate the efficacy and safety of a bismuth-based 
quadruple therapy as a second-line or rescue therapy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: This was a multicentric study. All consecutive patients 
that were treated with bismuth-based quadruple therapy, as second-line or 
salvage treatment between July 2017 and April 2019 were enrolled. Their medical 
records were reviewed and clinical and laboratorial parameters, as well as data 
on treatment efficacy and adverse events were retrieved. Patients were also 
contacted by phone after treatment to confirm compliance, adverse events, and 
global satisfaction with this specific therapy.
RESULTS: A total of 151 subjects were included (female-68.9%; mean 
age-56 ± 13.5 years). Patients were previously submitted to 212 eradication 
schemes (Median-1; 1-5; IQR:4): 33.5% triple clarithromycin-based, 25% 
sequential, 7.5% concomitant, 5.2% others, and in 28.8% it was not possible to 
know the previous eradication scheme(s) followed by the patient. The PPI of 
choice was esomeprazole (39.7%), followed by omeprazole (27.8%). Compliance was 
achieved in 93.4% and the overall eradication rate was 90.1% (95% CI: 
84.6-94.2). Treatment-related adverse effects were experienced by 63 patients 
(41.7%; 95% CI: 34-49.7), being mild in 29, moderate in 19, and severe in 15. 
The main drawbacks of the treatment, from the patient's perspective, were the 
high price (47%) and the adverse effects (16.6%). Failure to eradicate H. pylori 
was correlated with the following: previous rifabutin-based scheme (0 vs. 100%; 
p = 0.010) and a higher number of previous treatment schemes (1.5 ± 0.7 vs. 
2.3 ± 1.2; p < 0.001).
CONCLUSION: In this South-European country a single-capsule bismuth-based 
quadruple therapy is an excellent option as a second-line or rescue therapy, 
with acceptable compliance and side effects.

DOI: 10.1080/00365521.2022.2119097
PMID: 36189844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2011 Dec;34(11-12):1255-68. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2036.2011.04887.x. Epub 2011 Oct 21.

Review article: the effectiveness of standard triple therapy for Helicobacter 
pylori has not changed over the last decade, but it is not good enough.

Gisbert JP(1), Calvet X.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Aparato Digestivo, Hospital Universitario de La Princesa, 
Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria Princesa (IP) y Centro de Investigación 
Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades Hepáticas y Digestivas (CIBEREHD), Madrid, 
Spain. gisbert@meditex.es

BACKGROUND  A decrease in the Helicobacter pylori eradication rate after 
standard triple therapy has been suggested in recent years. AIM  To assess the 
efficacy of standard triple therapy in the eradication of H. pylori through an 
epidemiological analysis of all published Spanish trials. A secondary aim was to 
review the prevalence of clarithromycin resistance in Spain. METHODS  Articles 
on H. pylori eradication in Spain published in peer-reviewed journals were 
identified through MEDLINE searches. Studies that included a triple therapy 
consisting of any proton pump inhibitor with clarithromycin (500 mg b.d.) and 
amoxicillin (1 g b.d.) for up to 14 days were selected. Spanish studies 
evaluating the prevalence of clarithromycin resistance were also reviewed. 
Meta-analysis was performed using the generic inverse variance method. RESULTS 
The pooled eradication rates by year from Spanish studies evaluating the 
efficacy of the standard triple regimen revealed a relatively constant rate over 
the years. Overall, the analysis of the 32 studies (4727 patients) showed a mean 
H. pylori cure rate of 80% (95% CI = 77-82%) by intention-to-treat and 83% 
(81-86%) by per-protocol. When only peptic ulcer disease or 7-day regimens were 
considered, results were similar. Based on 13 studies (3293 patients), mean 
clarithromycin resistance rate was 8% (5-10%). CONCLUSION Although a decrease in 
the H. pylori eradication rate after triple therapy has been suggested in recent 
years, cure rates with this regimen did not change in Spain between 1997 and 
2008. However, this by no means indicates that the efficacy of standard triple 
therapy in Spain is acceptable, as it has been calculated to be around only 80%. 
Therefore, it is evident that new strategies to improve first-line treatment are 
urgently needed.

© 2011 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2036.2011.04887.x
PMID: 22017749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Semergen. 2020 Apr;46(3):194-201. doi: 10.1016/j.semerg.2019.10.003. Epub 2019 
Nov 28.

[Characteristics of private and irregular prescription for oral antibiotics in 
Spanish community pharmacies].

[Article in Spanish]

Carbajal de Lara JA(1), Cantalapiedra Fernández F(2), Eguilleor Villena A(3), 
Gutiérrez Ríos P(4), Amador Fernández N(5), Molinero A(6).

Author information:
(1)Grupo de trabajo de antibióticos de SEFAC, Madrid, España; Doctor/a en 
Farmacia; Farmacéutico/a Comunitario/a; Especialista en Microbiología y 
Parasitología; Especialista en Farmacia Hospitalaria; Profesor Asociado, 
Universidad de Castilla-La Mancha, Ciudad Real, España.
(2)Grupo de trabajo de antibióticos de SEFAC, Madrid, España; Farmacéutico/a 
Comunitario/a; Profesor/a Asociado/a, Universidad de Alcalá de Henares, Alcalá 
de Henares, Madrid, España.
(3)Grupo de trabajo de antibióticos de SEFAC, Madrid, España; Farmacéutico/a 
Comunitario/a.
(4)Grupo de trabajo de antibióticos de SEFAC, Madrid, España; Farmacéutico/a 
Comunitario/a; Profesor Asociado, Universidad Complutense de Madrid, Madrid, 
España.
(5)Grupo de trabajo de antibióticos de SEFAC, Madrid, España; Farmacéutico/a 
Comunitario/a. Electronic address: namador@sefac.org.
(6)Doctor/a en Farmacia; Farmacéutico/a Comunitario/a; Profesor/a Asociado/a, 
Universidad de Alcalá de Henares, Alcalá de Henares, Madrid, España; 
Especialista en Análisis Clínicos.

OBJECTIVE: To quantify the proportion of oral antibiotics through private 
prescription (PP) and irregular prescription (IP) in the Community Pharmacy 
(CP).
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Cross-sectional multicentre study carried out in Spanish 
community pharmacies over a 4week period, one in each season of the year. An 
analysis was made of private and irregular prescriptions of oral J01 
antibacterials for systemic use (Anatomical Therapeutic Chemical [ATC] 
classification). The study variables used were prescription and consultation 
characteristics.
RESULTS: A total of 3569 PP (71% followed legislation) and 833 IP were recorded 
by 365 pharmacists working in 247 CP. PP were prescribed by dentists (43.7%), 
general practitioners (GP) (26.20%), and paediatricians (10.3%), to treat teeth 
infections (39.8%), upper respiratory infections (25.6%), lower respiratory 
infections (10.3%), and urinary infections (7.7%). The most prescribed 
antibiotics were amoxicillin (27.9%) and amoxicillin-clavulanic (25.2%). IP came 
from Emergency Departments (32.8%), oral/phone prescriptions (20.4%), and 
patient demand due to insufficient quantity of antibiotic to complete treatment 
(10%). Prescriptions came from GP (25.2%), dentists (24.7%), and paediatricians 
(12%) to treat upper respiratory infections (32.5%), teeth infections (25.8%), 
urinary infections (14.2%), and lower respiratory infections (10.8%). The most 
prescribed antibiotics were amoxicillin-clavulanic (27.4%) and amoxicillin 
(21.6%). Since every patient with IP was referred to the GP, 45.4% of them 
accepted the recommendations of the pharmacists.
CONCLUSIONS: This study obtained PP and IP characteristics, unknown and needed 
data in Spain for future health policy plans.

Copyright © 2019 Sociedad Española de Médicos de Atención Primaria (SEMERGEN). 
Publicado por Elsevier España, S.L.U. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.semerg.2019.10.003
PMID: 31785989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Glob J Health Sci. 2014 Aug 31;7(1):235-9. doi: 10.5539/gjhs.v7n1p235.

Low dose furazolidone for eradication of H- pylori instead of clarithromycin: a 
clinical trial.

Hajaghamohammadi A, Safiabadi Tali SH, Samimi R, Oveisi S, Kazemifar AM(1).

Author information:
(1)Qazvin university of medical sciences. dr.houshmand@yahoo.com.

BACKGROUND: Helicobacter pylori infection is a common chronic human bacterial 
infection. Triple- therapy regimen containing a proton pump inhibitor, 
clarithromycin, and either amoxicillin or metronidazole is commonly used as 
first-line treatment for its eradication. However, it may not provide the 
acceptable eradication rate. The present study was designed to evaluated 
efficacy of low dose furazolidone with amoxicillin and omeprazole for 
eradication of H- pylori.
MATERIALS & METHODS: One hundred twenty patients with non- ulcer dyspepsia or 
peptic ulcer confirmed by upper GI endoscopy, plus H- pylori infection confirmed 
by rapid urease test were included in the study. They were randomly divided into 
two groups, and then received clarithromycin, amoxicillin, and omeprazole, or 
furazolidone (100 mg PO bid), amoxicillin, and omeprazole. They were evaluated 
using urea breath test at the end of the study.
FINDINGS: The eradication rates were 57.6% and 78.8% in clarithromycin and 
furazolidone groups, respectively. Their difference was statistically 
significant (P value 0.013). No side effect was seen in the furazolidone group.
CONCLUSION: Low dose furazolidone rather than clarithromycin can be used as low- 
cost and effective drug for eradication of H- pylori, in combination with 
amoxicillin and omeprazole.

DOI: 10.5539/gjhs.v7n1p235
PMCID: PMC4796360
PMID: 25560342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Drug Des Devel Ther. 2020 Dec 7;14:5405-5418. doi: 10.2147/DDDT.S285522. 
eCollection 2020.

Mini-Tablets versus Nanoparticles for Controlling the Release of Amoxicillin: In 
vitro/In vivo Study.

Gaber DA(1)(2), Alhawas HS(3), Alfadhel FA(3), Abdoun SA(1)(4), Alsubaiyel 
AM(1), Alsawi RM(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutics, College of Pharmacy, Qassim University, 
Buraidah, kingdom of saudi arabia.
(2)Department of Quality Control & Quality Assurance, Holding Company for 
Biological Products and Vaccines, Cairo, Egypt.
(3)College of Pharmacy, Qassim University, Buraidah, kingdom of saudi arabia.
(4)National Medicine Quality Control Laboratory, National Medicine and Poisons 
Board, Sudan.
(5)King Faisal Specialist Hospital and Research Center, Riyadh, kingdom of saudi 
arabia.

INTRODUCTION: Controlling the drug release from the dosage form at a definite 
rate is the main challenge for a successful oral controlled-release drug 
delivery system. In this study, mini-tablets (MTs) and lipid/polymer 
nanoparticles (LPNs) of lipid polymer and chitosan in different ratios were 
designed to encapsulate and control the release time of Amoxicillin (AMX).
METHODS: Physical characteristics and in vitro release profiles of both MT and 
LPN formulations were studied. Antimicrobial activity and oral pharmacokinetics 
of the optimum MT and LPN formulations in comparison to market tablet were 
studied in rats.
RESULTS: All designed formulations of AMX as MTs and LPNs showed accepted 
characteristics. MT-6 (Compritol/Chitosan 1:1) showed the greatest retardation 
among all prepared minitablet preparations, releasing about 79.5% of AMX over 8 
h. In contrast, LPN-11 (AMX: Cr 1:3/Chitosan 1 mg/mL) had the slowest drug 
release, revealing the sustained release of 80.9% within 8 h. The MIC of both 
optimized tablet formula (MT-6) and LPNs formula (LPN-11) was around two-fold 
lower than the control against H. pylori. The Cmax of MT-6 and LPN11 were non 
significantly different compared with the marketed AMX product. While the 
bioavailability experiment proved that the relative bioavailability of the AMX 
was 1.85 and 1.8 after the oral use of LPN11 and MT-6, respectively, compared to 
the market tablet.
CONCLUSION: The results verified that both controlled-release mini-tablets and 
lipid/polymer nanoparticles can be used for sustaining the release and hence 
improve the bioavailability of amoxicillin.

© 2020 Gaber et al.

DOI: 10.2147/DDDT.S285522
PMCID: PMC7732758
PMID: 33324038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest in 
this work.


153. Biomed Res Int. 2017;2017:3729401. doi: 10.1155/2017/3729401. Epub 2017 Dec 18.

Pattern and Appropriateness of Medicines Prescribed to Outpatients at a 
University Hospital in Northwestern Ethiopia.

Teni FS(1), Belachew SA(2), Gebresillassie BM(2), Birru EM(3), Wubishet BL(4), 
Tekleyes BH(5), Yimer BT(5), Tefera YG(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutics and Social Pharmacy, School of Pharmacy, College 
of Health Sciences, Addis Ababa University, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
(2)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, School of Pharmacy, College of Medicine and 
Health Sciences, University of Gondar, Gondar, Ethiopia.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, School of Pharmacy, College of Medicine and 
Health Sciences, University of Gondar, Gondar, Ethiopia.
(4)Research Center for Generational Health and Ageing, Faculty of Health and 
Medicine, University of Newcastle, Callaghan, NSW, Australia.
(5)Department of Pharmaceutics, School of Pharmacy, College of Medicine and 
Health Sciences, University of Gondar, Gondar, Ethiopia.

The study assessed the pattern and appropriateness of medicines prescribed to 
outpatients at Gondar University Referral Hospital in northwestern Ethiopia. An 
institution-based cross-sectional study was employed, through interviews and 
prescription reviews, among 346 patients at the outpatient pharmacy, from 2nd to 
20th of May 2016. Data on sociodemographic profile of patients and medicines 
prescribed to them were collected. A mean of 1.72 medicines per encounter was 
prescribed, over a third of the total being anti-infectives. Patients were able 
to get about 85% of these medicines. An unskilled government employee would be 
required to work more than one and a half day to be able to afford the average 
priced medicine. Among prescriptions with two or more medicines, more than a 
third had at least one potential drug-drug interaction (PDDI), the commonest 
pair containing amoxicillin and doxycycline. Being male, being older (50-59 
years), and increased number of medicines were associated with higher likelihood 
of PDDIs. In conclusion, the number of medicines prescribed per encounter was up 
to accepted standard. However, their availability fell short, together with 
considerable cost. Regarding appropriateness, a significant proportion of 
potential drug-drug interactions is identified and associated with patient's 
sex, age, and number of medicines prescribed.

DOI: 10.1155/2017/3729401
PMCID: PMC5748306
PMID: 29404369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Biomedica. 2019 May 1;39(s1):125-134. doi: 10.7705/biomedica.v39i3.4437.

Helicobacter pylori: Multiple resistance in patients from Bogotá, Colombia.

[Article in English, Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Arévalo A(1), Otero WA, Trespalacios AA.

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio de Bacteriología Especial, Grupo de Enfermedades Infecciosas, 
Departamento de Microbiología, Facultad de Ciencias, Pontificia Universidad 
Javeriana, Bogotá, D.C., Colombia; Facultad de Medicina Veterinaria y Zootecnia, 
Universidad Nacional de Colombia, Bogotá, D.C., Colombia. 
azucena.arevalo@javeriana.edu.co.

Introduction: The main cause for Helicobacter pylori infection treatment failure 
is antibiotic resistance, where clarithromycin and metronidazole play the main 
role. In Colombia, primary resistance as a consequence of the use of these two 
antibiotics and excessive levofloxacin use is above the accepted limit (13.6%, 
83%, and 16%, respectively). Despite this fact, empirical therapies that include 
the combination of these antibiotics are used in patients with previous 
therapeutic failure. Objective: To determine antibiotic resistance in patients 
previously treated for H. pylori in Bogotá, Colombia. Materials and methods: We 
conducted a descriptive study that included ten isolates obtained from five 
patients with three or four previous failed treatments for H. pylori. Antibiotic 
resistance to amoxicillin, clarithromycin, levofloxacin, and metronidazole was 
investigated by agar dilution and confirmed by DNA sequencing (Magrogen, Korea). 
Results: Eight isolates were resistant to two or more antibiotics. All isolates 
were resistant to levofloxacin. Susceptibility patterns in isolates from the 
gastric antrum and the body of the stomach were different in three patients. 
Conclusion: As far as we know, this is the first evidence of multiple H. pylori 
resistance in Colombia in previously treated patients. Results demonstrated the 
consequences of using an ineffective antibiotic scheme and the need to assess 
antibiotic susceptibility in different anatomical sites of the stomach. The 
consequences of multiple resistance decrease possible antibiotic effectiveness 
to eradicate H. pylori in the future.

Publisher: Introducción. La resistencia a los antibióticos es la principal causa 
del fracaso del tratamiento contra Helicobacter pylori; la claritromicina y el 
metronidazol son los antibióticos que generan mayor resistencia. En Colombia, la 
resistencia primaria a estos dos antibióticos y el uso excesivo de levofloxacina 
han alcanzado los límites aceptados (13,6, 83 y 16 %, respectivamente). A pesar 
de ello, se usa el tratamiento empírico combinando estos antibióticos en 
pacientes en los que ha fallado anteriormente. Objetivo. Determinar la 
resistencia a los antibióticos en pacientes previamente tratados para H. pylori 
en Bogotá, Colombia. Materiales y métodos. Se llevó a cabo un estudio 
descriptivo en el que se evaluó mediante dilución en agar la resistencia a la 
amoxicilina, la claritromicina, la levofloxacina y el metronidazol en 10 
aislamientos provenientes de 5 pacientes con tres o cuatro tratamientos fallidos 
para H. pylori. La resistencia a los antibióticos se confirmó mediante 
secuenciación de ADN (Magrogen, Korea). Resultados. Ocho de los aislamientos 
presentaron resistencia a dos o más antibióticos y todos fueron resistentes a la 
levofloxacina. Los patrones de sensibilidad de los aislamientos provenientes del 
antro pilórico y del cuerpo del estómago, fueron diferentes en tres de los 
pacientes. Conclusión. Hasta donde se sabe, esta es la primera evidencia de 
resistencia múltiple de H. pylori en Colombia en pacientes previamente tratados. 
Los resultados evidenciaron las consecuencias del uso de un esquema ineficaz de 
tratamiento antibiótico y la necesidad de evaluar la sensibilidad a los 
antibióticos en diferentes sitios anatómicos del estómago. La resistencia 
múltiple limita el número de antibióticos útiles para erradicar H. pylori.

DOI: 10.7705/biomedica.v39i3.4437
PMID: 31529855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Int J Tuberc Lung Dis. 2016 Apr;20(4):474-8. doi: 10.5588/ijtld.15.0666.

Treating children for drug-resistant tuberculosis in Tajikistan with Group 5 
medications.

Swaminathan A(1), du Cros P(2), Seddon JA(3), Quinnell S(1), Bobokhojaev OI(4), 
Dusmatova Z(1), Achar J(2).

Author information:
(1)Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF), Dushanbe, Tajikistan.
(2)Manson Unit, MSF, London, UK.
(3)Manson Unit, MSF, London, UK; Imperial College London, London, UK.
(4)National Tuberculosis Programme, Ministry of Health and Social Protection of 
the Republic of Tajikistan, Dushanbe, Tajikistan.

BACKGROUND: Management of extensively drug-resistant tuberculosis (XDR-TB) and 
pre-XDR-TB is challenging, as effective drugs are lacking. Group 5 
anti-tuberculosis drugs have an unclear role in the treatment of drug-resistant 
TB, and in children the efficacy, safety and effects of long-term use are not 
well described. We present clinical outcomes and adverse effects of a cohort of 
children with XDR-TB or pre-XDR-TB treated with Group 5 drugs in Tajikistan.
METHODS: We conducted a retrospective analysis of eight children treated with 
one or more of the Group 5 drugs available under the Tajikistan National TB 
Programme-linezolid, amoxicillin-clavulanate, clofazimine and 
clarithromycin-given in combination with first- and second-line drugs. Time to 
sputum culture conversion, clinical outcomes and adverse effects were evaluated.
RESULTS: Two children were cured, one completed treatment, four achieved 
favourable interim outcomes and one died. Adverse effects attributable to 
linezolid that required drug cessation occurred in one child; adverse effects of 
the other Group 5 drugs were insignificant or absent, requiring no regimen 
changes.
CONCLUSION: Group 5 drugs can contribute to effective regimens in children with 
XDR and pre-XDR-TB. With proper monitoring and aggressive management of adverse 
effects, their safety profile might be acceptable, even in long-term use.

DOI: 10.5588/ijtld.15.0666
PMID: 26970156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Helicobacter. 2015 Aug;20(4):299-304. doi: 10.1111/hel.12202. Epub 2015 Mar 4.

Comparison Between 10- and 14-Day Hybrid Regimens for Helicobacter pylori 
Eradication: A Randomized Clinical Trial.

Metanat HA(1), Valizadeh SM(1), Fakheri H(1), Maleki I(1), Taghvaei T(1), 
Hosseini V(1), Bari Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Inflammatory Diseases of Upper Gastrointestinal Tract Research Center, 
Department of Gastroenterology, Mazandaran University of Medical Sciences, Sari, 
Mazandaran, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) eradication has always been a 
concern. In our previous study, 14-day hybrid regimen showed ideal results. 
Based on these findings, we decided to compare the efficacy of 10- and 14-day 
hybrid regimens for H. pylori eradication.
METHODS: Two hundred and seventy patients with peptic ulcer disease and H. 
pylori infection were enrolled in the study. One hundred and thirty-four 
patients received 10-day hybrid regimen (PACT-10): pantoprazole, 40 mg, and 
amoxicillin, 1 g, both twice daily for 10 days; plus clarithromycin, 500 mg, and 
tinidazole, 500 mg, both twice daily just during the last 5 days. One hundred 
and thirty-six patients received 14-day hybrid regimen (PACT-14): pantoprazole, 
40 mg, and amoxicillin, 1 g, both twice a day for 14 days; plus clarithromycin, 
500 mg, and tinidazole, 500 mg, both twice daily just for the last 7 days. Eight 
weeks after treatment, (14) C-urea breath test was performed to evaluate H. 
pylori eradication.
RESULTS: Two hundred and fifty patients (124 patients in PACT-10 and 126 
patients in PACT-14 regimens) completed the study. The intention-to-treat 
eradication rates were 77.6% (95% confidence interval (CI): 70.6-84.6%) and 86% 
(95% CI: 80-92%) for the two regimens, respectively (p = .17). Per-protocol 
eradication rates were 83.8% (95% CI: 80-86%) and 92.8% (95% CI: 88-96%), 
respectively (p < .01). There were no significant intergroup differences in 
compliance to treatment or discontinuation of therapy due to severe side 
effects.
CONCLUSION: Ten-day hybrid regimen could not achieve acceptable eradication 
rate. However, 14-day hybrid regimen seems to be an acceptable option for H. 
pylori eradication in Iran.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/hel.12202
PMID: 25752357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Medicine (Baltimore). 2017 Feb;96(7):e5859. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000005859.

Efficacy of 1st-line bismuth-containing quadruple therapies with levofloxacin or 
clarithromycin for the eradication of Helicobacter pylori infection: A 1-week, 
open-label, randomized trial.

Su J(1), Zhou X, Chen H, Hao B, Zhang W, Zhang G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical 
University, Nanjing Department of Gastroenterology, XuZhou Central Hospital, 
Xuzhou, China First Clinical Medical College of Nanjing Medical University, 
Nanjing, China.

BACKGROUND: The aim of the present open-label, randomized control trial was to 
determine the clinical efficacy and safety of two 1-week bismuth-containing 
quadruple regimens and 1 levofloxacin-based triple regimen for the eradication 
of Helicobacter pylori infection in treatment-naive patients. The influence of 
susceptibility and host CYP2C19 polymorphisms on the efficacy was also 
evaluated.
METHODS: Eligible patients were randomly to receive esomeprazole and colloidal 
bismuth pectin along with clarithromycin and amoxicillin (EBCA), esomeprazole 
and colloidal bismuth pectin along with levofloxacin and amoxicillin (EBLA), or 
esomeprazole along levofloxacin and amoxicillin (ELA) for 1 week. The primary 
outcome was the eradication rate in the intention-to-treat (ITT) and 
per-protocol (PP) analyses.
RESULTS: Overall, 270 patients were randomized. The eradication rates in the 
above 3 groups were 80.25%, 89.66%, and 81.93% in PP analysis and 72.22%, 
86.66%, and 75.56% in ITT analysis, respectively. The eradication rate of EBLA 
was significantly higher than that of EBCA (P = 0.016) in ITT analysis. No 
significant differences were found among these groups in terms of adverse 
effects and compliance. The efficacy was significantly affected by levofloxacin 
resistance for EBLA (P = 0.01) and ELA (P = 0.04), but not by polymorphisms of 
CYP2C19 gene for any of the 3 groups.
CONCLUSION: All 1-week bismuth-containing quadruple therapies and 
levofloxacin-based triple therapy can obtain an acceptable eradication rate, and 
levofloxacin-based quadruple regimen exhibits the highest eradication rate. The 
antibiotic resistant rate of levofloxacin was associated with the eradication 
rate.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000005859
PMCID: PMC5319494
PMID: 28207505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
disclose.


158. Medicine (Baltimore). 2020 Sep 18;99(38):e22137. doi: 
10.1097/MD.0000000000022137.

The prolongation effect of ilaprazole-based standard triple therapy for 
Helicobacter pylori.

Lee SW(1), Moon SJ(1), Kim SH(2), Jung SH(2), Song KH(3), Kim SM(3), Sung JK(4), 
Lee DS(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Internal Medicine, College of 
Medicine, The Catholic University of Korea, Seoul.
(2)Division of Gastroenterology Department of Internal Medicine, College of 
Medicine, Eulji University.
(3)Division of Gastroenterology Department of Internal Medicine, College of 
Medicine, Konyang University.
(4)Division of Gastroenterology Department of Internal Medicine, Chungnam 
National University School of Medicine, Republic of Korea.

Erratum in
    Medicine (Baltimore). 2021 Jan 22;100(3):e24431. doi: 
10.1097/MD.0000000000024431.

BACKGROUND: Helicobacter pylori (HP) infection causes many diseases, such as 
peptic ulcers, gastritis and gastric cancer, and MALToma. It has been gradually 
accepted that all HP-infected patients should be treated because HP is regarded 
as an infection. Therefore, the importance of selecting the optimal treatment 
regimen has increased. Although the 14-day standard triple therapy (STT) is 
recommended in the current guidelines, prolonging treatment duration is 
controversial in real practice because of inconsistent results from previous 
data and the risk of adverse effects. Additionally, the effect of STT using 
ilaprazole has not been reported until now. We aimed to compare the eradication 
rate between 7 and 10 days STT using ilaprazole.
METHODS: A prospective randomized controlled trial was conducted, which was 
divided into 2 treatment groups: the control group was 7 days of STT, and the 
test group was 10 days of STT. The eradication regimen was 10 mg ilaprazole, 
500 mg clarithromycin, and 1000 mg amoxicillin twice daily. We included patients 
who were diagnosed with positive results of H pylori examination. We compared 
the HP eradication rate according to treatment duration, CYP2C19 subtype and 
endoscopic diagnosis.
RESULTS: We enrolled a total of 254 patients consisting of 127 patients in each 
treatment arm. The eradication rates of the control and test groups were 65.4% 
(82/127) and 74.8% (95/127), respectively, in the intention-to-treat analysis 
(P = .1). In the per-protocol analysis, 70.3% (83/118) and 82.6% (94/115) were 
eradicated in each group, which was statistically significant (P = .027). The 
CYP2C19 subtype was examined in 230 patients. The eradication rate was 79.2% 
(57/72), 75.4% (92/122), and 72.2% (26/36) in each group, which was not 
significantly different (P = .704).
CONCLUSION: Ten-day STT was more effective than 7-day STT for HP eradication. 
The eradication rate was not affected by the CYP2C19 genotype.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000022137
PMCID: PMC7505311
PMID: 32957336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Drug Saf. 2009;32(5):359-78. doi: 10.2165/00002018-200932050-00001.

Safety profile of the respiratory fluoroquinolone moxifloxacin: comparison with 
other fluoroquinolones and other antibacterial classes.

Van Bambeke F(1), Tulkens PM.

Author information:
(1)Unité de pharmacologie cellulaire et moléculaire & Centre de Pharmacie 
Clinique, Louvain Drug Research Institute, Université catholique de Louvain, 
Brussels, Belgium. francoise.vanbambeke@uclouvain.be

Moxifloxacin, a fluoroquinolone with potent activity against respiratory 
pathogens, is approved and considered as an alternative to beta-lactams and 
macrolides for the treatment of acute bacterial sinusitis and lower respiratory 
tract infections. In this review, we critically examine its safety profile in 
comparison with other fluoroquinolones and other antibacterial classes sharing 
similar indications. Data were extracted from published clinical trials, 
meta-analyses, postmarketing studies, spontaneous report systems and case 
reports for rare effects. Global analysis did not reveal significantly higher 
incidences of drug-related adverse effects than for comparators. Tendon rupture 
was infrequent with moxifloxacin, including when used in elderly patients with 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Severe toxic cutaneous reactions and 
allergies were very rare. Phototoxicity and CNS adverse effects were less common 
than with other fluoroquinolones. Although causing a 4-7 msec corrected QT 
interval prolongation, severe cardiac toxicity was neither seen in large cohorts 
or clinical trials nor reported to pharmacovigilance systems. Hepatotoxicity was 
not different from what was observed for other fluoroquinolones (excluding 
trovafloxacin) and less frequent than reported for amoxicillin-clavulanic acid 
or telithromycin. The data show that using moxifloxacin, in its accepted 
indications and following the corresponding guidelines, should not be associated 
with an excessive incidence of drug-related adverse reactions, provided the 
clinician takes care in identifying patients with known risk factors and pays 
due attention to the contraindications and warnings mentioned in the labelling.

DOI: 10.2165/00002018-200932050-00001
PMID: 19419232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. J Glob Health. 2022 Aug 31;12:10008. doi: 10.7189/jogh.12.10008.

Which children with chest-indrawing pneumonia can be safely treated at home, and 
under what conditions is it safe to do so? A systematic review of evidence from 
low- and middle-income countries.

Wilkes C, Graham H, Walker P, Duke T; ARI Review group.

Collaborators: Duke T, Graham H, Graham S, Gray A, Gwee A, von Mollendorf C, 
Mulholland K, Russell F, Hume-Nixon M, Kazi S, Kevat P, Neal E, Nguyen C, Quach 
A, Reyburn R, Ryan K, Walker P, Wilkes C, Chua P, Nisar YB, Simon J, Were W.

BACKGROUND: WHO pneumonia guidelines recommend that children (aged 2-59 months) 
with chest indrawing pneumonia and without any "general danger sign" can be 
treated with oral amoxicillin without hospital admission. This recommendation 
was based on trial data from limited contexts whose generalisability is unclear. 
This review aimed to identify which children with chest-indrawing pneumonia in 
low- and middle-income countries can be safely treated at home, and under what 
conditions is it safe to do so.
METHODS: We searched MEDLINE, EMBASE, and PubMed for observational and 
interventional studies of home-based management of children (aged 28 days to 
four years) with chest-indrawing pneumonia in low- or middle-income countries.
RESULTS: We included 14 studies, including seven randomised trials, from a 
variety of urban and rural contexts in 11 countries. Two community-based and two 
hospital-based trials in Pakistan and India found that home treatment of 
chest-indrawing pneumonia was associated with similar or superior treatment 
outcomes to hospital admission. Evidence from trials (n = 3) and observational 
(n = 6) studies in these and other countries confirms the acceptability and 
feasibility of home management of chest-indrawing pneumonia in low-risk cases, 
so long as safeguards are in place. Risk assessment includes clinical danger 
signs, oxygen saturation, and the presence of comorbidities such as 
undernutrition, anaemia, or HIV. Pulse oximetry is a critical risk-assessment 
tool that is currently not widely available and can identify severely ill 
patients with hypoxaemia otherwise possibly missed by clinical assessment alone. 
Additional safeguards include caregiver understanding and ability to return for 
review.
CONCLUSIONS: Home treatment of chest-indrawing pneumonia can be safe but should 
only be recommended for children confirmed to be low-risk and in contexts where 
appropriate care and safety measures are in place.

Copyright © 2022 by the Journal of Global Health. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.7189/jogh.12.10008
PMCID: PMC9428503
PMID: 36040992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure of Interest: The authors completed 
the ICMJE Disclosure of Interest Form (available upon request from the 
corresponding author) and declare no relevant interest.


161. Tierarztl Prax Ausg K Kleintiere Heimtiere. 2022 Oct;50(5):337-347. doi: 
10.1055/a-1949-0407. Epub 2022 Nov 2.

[Influence of the Verordnung über Tierärztliche Hausapotheken on antimicrobial 
use in dogs and cats in Bavaria].

[Article in German; Abstract available in German from the publisher]

Mohr K(1), Nolff M(2), Zablotski Y(1), Dittus T(3), Korbel R(4), 
Meyer-Lindenberg A(5), Wolf G(6), Hiss K(7), Peters H(7), Schulz B(1).

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Kleintierklinik der Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität, München.
(2)Klinik für Kleintierchirurgie, Tierspital Universität Zürich.
(3)Tierklinik Stadtsteinach, Stadtsteinach.
(4)Klinik für Vögel, Kleinsäuger, Reptilien und Zierfische der 
Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität, München.
(5)Chirurgische und Gynäkologische Kleintierklinik der 
Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität, München.
(6)Institut für Infektionsmedizin und Zoonosen der 
Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität, München.
(7)Bayerisches Landesamt für Gesundheit und Lebensmittelsicherheit, Erlangen.

OBJECTIVE: Aim of the study was to collect data concerning the use of 
antibiotics (AB) in dogs and cats in veterinary practices and clinics in 
Bavaria, Germany. It was evaluated, whether changes in the use of AB since the 
amendment of the Verordnung über Tierärztliche Hausapotheken (TÄHAV, German 
Regulation on the Veterinary In-house Pharmacy) in March 2018 could be 
documented.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Using 2 anonymous online surveys in 2017 and 2020, 
veterinarians treating dogs and cats in Bavaria were questioned about their 
usage of AB and their assessment of the current antimicrobial resistance 
situation. The results of both surveys were evaluated statistically and compared 
with each other.
RESULTS: While in 2017 a total of 238 questionaries were evaluated, 160 could be 
included in 2020. The three most commonly used antibiotics for systemic therapy 
were Amoxicillin/Clavulanic acid (74.8 % of veterinarians), Enrofloxacin (56.7 
%) and Amoxicillin (53.4 %) in 2017; and Amoxicillin/Clavulanic acid (88.8 %), 
Amoxicillin (67.5 %) and Metronidazole (33.8 %) in 2020, respectively. The 
participating veterinarians stated that their overall use of 3 rd and 4th 
generations cephalosporins (from 20.2 % of veterinarians in 2017 to 9.4 % in 
2020, p = 0,005) as well as fluoroquinolones (from 80.3 % to 33.1 %, p < 0.001) 
had significantly declined. In 2020, the choice of AB in veterinarians was 
affected by legal requirements (83.8 %), tolerability (81.3 %), way of 
application (76.9 %), acceptance by the patient (70.0 %), and frequency of 
application (64.4 %), with the last parameter being significantly more important 
to veterinarians working in a practice (83.8 %, p = 0.004) than to veterinarians 
in a clinic.
CONCLUSION: Veterinarians report a significantly reduced usage of 
fluoroquinolones and 3 rd and 4th generation cephalosporines in dogs and cats 
compared to 2017. These changes in prescribing practice could be a consequence 
of the amendment of the TÄHAV, which dictates a prohibition of rededication as 
well as an obligation for microbial sensitivity testing for these AB classes.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Legal restrictions could have a positive influence on the 
amount and type of antibiotics used and therefore help to prevent antimicrobial 
resistance.

Publisher: GEGENSTAND UND ZIEL: Ziel der Studie war es, Daten über den Einsatz 
von Antibiotika (AB) bei Hunden und Katzen in Tierarztpraxen und -kliniken in 
Bayern zu erheben. Dabei sollte evaluiert werden, ob sich Änderungen 
hinsichtlich des Antibiotikaeinsatzes nach Novellierung der Verordnung über 
Tierärztliche Hausapotheken (TÄHAV) im März 2018 ergeben haben.
MATERIAL UND METHODEN: Mittels zweier anonymisierter Online-Umfragen wurden 2017 
und 2020 Tierärzte/-innen (TÄ) in Bayern, zu deren Patienten Hunde und Katzen 
zählen, zur Anwendung von AB sowie zur Einschätzung der Resistenzsituation 
befragt. Die Ergebnisse der beiden Umfragen wurden anschließend miteinander 
verglichen.
ERGEBNISSE: Für 2017 konnten 238 Fragebögen ausgewertet werden; 2020 waren es 
160. Die 3 am häufigsten zur systemischen Therapie beim Kleintier angewendeten 
AB waren 2017 Amoxicillin/Clavulansäure (74,8 % der TÄ), Enrofloxacin (56,7 %) 
und Amoxicillin (53,4 %). 2020 wurden Amoxicillin/Clavulansäure (88,8 %), 
Amoxicillin (67,5 %) und Metronidazol (33,8 %) genannt. Die teilnehmenden TÄ 
gaben an, signifikant weniger Cephalosporine der 3. und 4. Generation (von 20,2 
% der teilnehmenden TÄ in 2017 auf 9,4 % in 2020, p = 0,005) und Fluorchinolone 
(von 80,3 % auf 33,1 %, p < 0,001) einzusetzen. Die Wahl eines AB wurde 2020 bei 
83,8 % der befragten TÄ durch rechtliche Vorgaben beeinflusst; weitere 
Einflussfaktoren waren Verträglichkeit (81,3 %), Applikationsart (76,9 %), 
Akzeptanz durch den Patienten (70,0 %) und Häufigkeit der Anwendung (64,4 %), 
wobei letzterer von TÄ aus der Praxis (83,8 %, p = 0,004) signifikant häufiger 
genannt wurden als von TÄ aus Kliniken.
SCHLUSSFOLGERUNG: Im Vergleich zu 2017 gaben TÄ 2020 einen signifikant 
geringeren Einsatz von Fluorchinolonen und Cephalosporinen der 3. und 4. 
Generation bei Hund und Katze an. Diese Änderungen im Verschreibungsverhalten 
könnten Folgen der Novellierung der TÄHAV sein, die ein Umwidmungsverbot sowie 
eine Antibiogrammpflicht dieser AB-Klassen vorgibt.
KLINISCHE RELEVANZ: Rechtliche Vorgaben können möglicherweise einen positiven 
Einfluss auf die Menge und Art der in der Kleintiermedizin eingesetzten 
Antibiotika haben und somit bei der Vermeidung von Antibiotikaresistenzen 
helfen.

Thieme. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1055/a-1949-0407
PMID: 36323270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Die Autoren bestätigen, dass kein 
Interessenkonflikt besteht.


162. Curr Med Res Opin. 1982;8(2):67-74. doi: 10.1185/03007998209109760.

Evaluation of the clinical efficacy of erythromycin, amoxicillin and 
co-trimoxazole in the treatment of acute respiratory tract infections in 
paediatric patients.

Bottone E, Baldini G, Macchia P, Soldateschi M, Fridlevski A.

An open comparative study was carried out in 56 paediatric patients with acute 
upper and lower respiratory tract infections to assess the efficacy and 
tolerance of treatment with erythromycin, amoxicillin or co-trimoxazole. 
Patients were treated with the standard recommended doses for 7 to 10 days. 
Diagnoses included otitis, tonsillitis, pharyngitis, epiglottiditis, pertussis, 
scarlet fever and bronchitis and, when possible, pathogens were isolated and 
identified at the initial visit. The clinical findings showed that all three 
treatment resulted in statistically significant decreases in final mean values 
for temperature, pulse rate and respiration rate. Twenty of the patients with 
positive cultures on entry became negative by the end of treatment. No clinical 
side-effects, were reported with any of the treatments. Overall assessment of 
response and acceptability of treatment by physician and patient/parent 
indicated that erythromycin was at least equally as effective as the other two 
drugs in treating common respiratory diseases found in paediatric practice.

DOI: 10.1185/03007998209109760
PMID: 6980775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Iran Endod J. 2010 Winter;5(1):6-10. Epub 2010 Feb 20.

Comparison of AH26 Physicochemical Properties with Two AH26/Antibiotic 
Combinations.

Razmi H(1), Parvizi S, Khorshidian A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endodontics, Dental School, Dental Research Center, Tehran, 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

INTRODUCTION: The purpose of this study was to compare the setting time and 
post-setting solubility, flow, film thickness and dimensional changes of AH26 
root canal sealer with AH26-Antibiotic combination.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This study was performed according to British standard BS 
6876 (2001) which tests the physicochemical properties of endodontic sealers. 
Three samples of each of tested materials including AH26 alone, AH26/amoxicillin 
and AH26/doxycycline were used to test each of the properties. They were 
prepared according to ISO protocols.
RESULTS: The setting time of studied materials was 46 hours for AH26, 29 hours 
for AH26/amoxicillin, 49 hours for AH26/doxycycline. Flow test results were as 
follows, for AH 26, 15.6 mm; AH26/amoxicillin, 14.9 mm; AH26/doxycycline, 14.2 
mm. Film thickness was 0.024 mm in AH26, 0.0283 mm in AH26/amoxicillin, 0.0276 
mm AH26/doxycycline. The solubility of AH26 was 0.0076%, AH26/amoxicillin, 
0.0113%, and for AH26/doxycycline, 0.013 %. Dimensional changes following 
setting was 0.07 mm, 2.6 mm, and 1.1 mm for AH 26, AH26/amoxicillin, and 
AH26/doxycycline, respectively.
CONCLUSION: The physico-mechanical properties of AH26 antibiotic combinations 
were superior compared with AH26, with the exception of flow. Also, 
AH26/amoxicillin had a lower setting time than AH26. However, all values were 
within an acceptable range which conformed to ISO.

PMCID: PMC3471569
PMID: 23130022

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: ‘None declared’.


164. Talanta. 2021 Jan 1;221:121641. doi: 10.1016/j.talanta.2020.121641. Epub 2020 
Sep 16.

Simultaneous determination of 8 beta-lactams and linezolid by an 
ultra-performance liquid chromatography method with UV detection and 
cross-validation with a commercial immunoassay for the quantification of 
linezolid.

Fage D(1), Deprez G(2), Fontaine B(2), Wolff F(2), Cotton F(2).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Chemistry Department - LHUB-ULB, Brussels, Belgium. Electronic 
address: david.fage@lhub-ulb.be.
(2)Clinical Chemistry Department - LHUB-ULB, Brussels, Belgium.

Linezolid and beta-lactams are anti-infective drugs frequently used in intensive 
care unit patients. Critical illness could induce alterations of pharmacokinetic 
parameters due to changes in the distribution, the metabolism and the 
elimination process. Therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) is therefore recommended 
to prevent mainly under-dosing of beta-lactams or hematological and neurological 
toxicities of linezolid. In Multi-or Extensively-Drugs Resistant-Tuberculosis 
Bacteria, the regimen could include linezolid with meropenem and 
amoxicillin/clavulanate justifying the development of a method allowing their 
simultaneous quantification. The aim of this work was to develop an in-house 
ultra-performance liquid chromatography method with UV detection (UHPLC-PDA) 
allowing the simultaneous determination of 8 beta-lactams (amoxicillin, 
aztreonam, cefepime, ceftazidime, ceftriaxone, cefuroxime, meropenem and 
piperacillin) and linezolid and to cross-validate the linezolid quantification 
with a new commercial immunoassay (ARK kit) tested on a Cobas analyzer. The main 
advantages of the immunoassay are a 24/24 h random access assay which is fully 
automated and results provided within 2 h. The interference due to potential 
co-administrated drugs was evaluated on both methods. The preanalytical factors 
(type of matrix, stability) for linezolid were also investigated. The influence 
of hemolysis, icteria or lipemia on the spectroscopic detection of the 
immunoassay was assessed. The analytical performances were evaluated using the 
accuracy profiles approach with acceptance limits fixed at ±30%. Seventy patient 
samples were measured using both methods. No cross-reaction with the tested 
anti-infective drugs as well as no influence of hemolysis, lipemia, icteria were 
observed. The linezolid concentration could be measured on heparinized plasma or 
serum without a significant difference and remained stable for at least 72h at 
4°C.The UHPLC-PDA method performed well in the analytical range investigated 
(0.25-50 mg/L for meropenem, 0.75-50 mg/L for linezolid and 1-200 mg/L for other 
beta-lactams) with an intermediate precision and a relative bias below 7.6 and 
7.7%, respectively. The analytical range of the immunoassay was narrower, from 
0.85 to 18.5 mg/L. The precision and relative bias were lower than 8.1% and 
4.2%, respectively. Results obtained on clinical samples showed an acceptable 
difference between methods with a mean bias of -1.8% [95% confidence interval: 
-5.2% - 1.6%]. To conclude, both methods showed acceptable performance to 
perform TDM of linezolid considering the therapeutic through target of 2-8 mg/L. 
The choice of the method should be made according to the degree of emergency of 
the response required and the field of application justifying or not the 
simultaneous quantification of beta-lactams and linezolid.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.talanta.2020.121641
PMID: 33076161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Int Forum Allergy Rhinol. 2016 Jan;6(1):41-5. doi: 10.1002/alr.21629. Epub 2015 
Sep 8.

Odontogenic and rhinogenic chronic sinusitis: a modern microbiological 
comparison.

Saibene AM(1), Vassena C(2), Pipolo C(1), Trimboli M(1), De Vecchi E(2), 
Felisati G(1), Drago L(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck, San Paolo Hospital, University of 
Milan, Milan, Italy.
(2)Laboratory of Clinical Chemistry and Microbiology, National Institute for 
Research and Treatment (IRCCS) Galeazzi Orthopaedic Institute, Milan, Italy.
(3)Laboratory of Technical Science for Laboratory Medicine, Department of 
Biomedical Science for Health, University of Milan, Milan, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Odontogenic sinusitis and sinonasal complications of dental disease 
or treatment (SCDDT) play a relevant, often underappreciated role in paranasal 
sinus infections. Treating SCDDT patients requires tailored medical and surgical 
approaches in order to achieve acceptable success rates. These approaches differ 
from common rhinogenic sinusitis treatment protocols mostly because of the 
different etiopathogenesis. Our study comprehensively evaluated microbiology and 
antibiotic resistance in SCDDT patients and compared findings with a control 
group of patients affected by rhinogenic sinusitis.
METHODS: We performed microbiological sampling during surgery on 28 patients 
with SCDDT and 16 patients with chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps 
(CRSwNP). Colonies were isolated, Gram-stained, and the species identified using 
classic biochemical methods. These results were confirmed by DNA pyrosequencing, 
and then the resistance profile of each SCDDT isolate to various antibiotics was 
tested.
RESULTS: Microbial growth was observed in all SCDDT patients, whereas samples 
from 60% of patients in the control group failed to yield any bacterial growth 
(p < 0.001). Anaerobes grew in 14% of SCDDT patients as compared to 7% of CRSwNP 
patients (p = 0.42). Of the isolates from SCDDT patients, 70% were susceptible 
to amoxicillin/clavulanate, whereas all isolates were susceptible to 
levofloxacin, teicoplanin, and vancomycin. Of the staphylococci identified, 80% 
were capable of producing beta-lactamase.
CONCLUSION: Given the extent of microbiological contamination within the 
maxillary sinus of SCDDT patients, these infections should be regarded as a 
different class of conditions from rhinogenic sinusitis. Our findings support 
the need for different approaches in the treatment of SCDDT patients.

© 2015 ARS-AAOA, LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/alr.21629
PMID: 26345711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Antimicrob Steward Healthc Epidemiol. 2023 Nov 16;3(1):e210. doi: 
10.1017/ash.2023.465. eCollection 2023.

Mixed methods evaluation of handshake antimicrobial stewardship on adult 
inpatient medicine floors.

Neuner EA(1), Atkinson A(2), Ilges D(3), Krekel T(1), Ritchie DJ(1), Bewley 
AF(2), Durkin MJ(2), Hsueh K(2), Sayood S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Barnes-Jewish Hospital, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Infectious Diseases, Washington 
University, School of Medicine in St. Louis, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, Mayo Clinic Arizona, Phoenix, AZ, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effects of handshake antimicrobial stewardship on 
medicine floors at a large tertiary care hospital.
DESIGN: Retrospective observational study.
SETTING: 1,278-bed academic hospital.
PATIENTS: Adults admitted to non-ICU medicine services.
INTERVENTIONS: A handshake stewardship team consisting of an infectious diseases 
(ID) physician and pharmacist reviewed charts of patients receiving 
antimicrobials on medicine floors without a formal ID consult. Recommendations 
were communicated in-person to providers and acceptance rates were examined with 
descriptive statistics. Additional data regarding program perception among 
providers were obtained via surveys. Antibiotic usage trends were extracted from 
National Healthcare Safety Network Antimicrobial Use option data and evaluated 
using an interrupted time-series analysis pre- and post-intervention.
RESULTS: The overall acceptance rate of interventions was 80%, the majority 
being recommendations either to discontinue (37%) or de-escalate therapy (28%). 
Medical residents and hospitalists rated the intervention favorably with 90% 
reporting recommendations were helpful all or most of the time. There was a 
statistically significant decrease in vancomycin (78 vs 70 DOT/1,000 d present 
(DP), p = 0.002) and meropenem (24 vs 17 DOT/1,000 DP, p = 0.007) usage and a 
statistically significant increase in amoxicillin-clavulanate usage (11 vs 15 
DOT/1,000 DP, p < 0.001). Overall antibiotic usage remained unchanged by the 
intervention, though pre-intervention there was a nonsignificant overall 
increasing trend while post-intervention there was a nonsignificant decreasing 
trend in overall usage. There was no change in in-hospital mortality.
CONCLUSION: The addition of handshake stewardship with adult medicine services 
was favorably viewed by participants and led to shifts in antibiotic usage.

© The Author(s) 2023.

DOI: 10.1017/ash.2023.465
PMCID: PMC10753471
PMID: 38156212

Conflict of interest statement: All authors report no conflicts of interest 
relevant to this article.


167. J Glob Health. 2023 Aug 18;13:04062. doi: 10.7189/jogh.13.04062.

Cost of treating sick young infants (0-59 days) with Possible Serious Bacterial 
Infection in resource-constrained outpatient primary care facilities: An insight 
from implementation research in two districts of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh 
(India).

Garg CC(1), Mukopadhyay R(2), Arora NK(3), Awasthi S(4), Verma RK(4), Poluru 
R(3), Limbu P(5), Qazi SA(6), Bahl R(7), Nisar YB(8).

Author information:
(1)Health Financing Advisor and Executive Director, Syzygy Consulting, 
California, USA.
(2)Centre for Anthropology, Amity University, Uttar Pradesh, Noida Campus, 
India.
(3)The INCLEN Trust International, New Delhi, India.
(4)Department of Paediatrics, King George's Medical University (KGMU), Lucknow, 
India.
(5)The George Institute of Global Health, New Delhi, India.
(6)Newborn and Child Health Consultant, Geneva, Switzerland.
(7)Indian Council of Medical Research, New Delhi, India.
(8)Department of Maternal, Newborn, Child and Adolescent Health and Aging (MCH), 
World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Information on the average and incremental costs of implementing 
alternative strategies for treating young infants 0-59 days old in primary 
health facilities with signs of possible serious bacterial infection (PSBI) when 
a referral is not feasible is limited but valuable for policymakers.
METHODS: Direct activity costs were calculated for outpatient treatment of PSBI 
and pneumonia in two districts of India: Palwal, Haryana and Lucknow, Uttar 
Pradesh. These included costs of staff time and consumables for initial 
assessment, classification, and referrals; recommended treatment of fast 
breathing (oral amoxicillin for seven days) and PSBI (injection gentamicin and 
oral amoxicillin for seven days); and daily assessments. Indirect operational 
costs included staff training; staff time cost for general management, 
supervision, and coordination; referral transport; and communication.
RESULTS: The average cost per young infant treated for recommended and 
acceptable treatment for PSBI was 16 US dollars (US$) (95% CI = US$15.4-16.3) in 
2018-19 and US$18.5 in 2022 (adjusted for inflation) when all direct and 
indirect operational costs were considered. The average cost of recommended 
treatment for pneumonia was US$10.1 (95% CI = US$9.7-10.6) or US$11.7 in 2022, 
per treated young infant. The incremental cost 2018-2019 for supplies, 
medicines, and operations (excluding staff time costs) per infant treated for 
PSBI was US$6.1 and US$4.3 and for pneumonia was US$3.5 and US$2.2 in Palwal and 
Lucknow, respectively. Operation and administrative costs were 25% in Palwal and 
12% in Lucknow of the total PSBI treatment costs. The average cost per live 
birth for treating PSBI in each population was US$5 in Palwal and US$3 in 
Lucknow. Higher operation costs for social mobilisation activities in Palwal led 
to the empowerment of families and timely care-seeking.
CONCLUSIONS: Costs of treatment of PSBI with the recommended regimen in an 
outpatient setting, when a referral is not feasible, are under US$20 per treated 
child and must be budgeted to reduce deaths from neonatal sepsis. The investment 
must be made in activities that lead to successful identification, prompt care 
seeking, timely initiation of treatment and follow-up.

Copyright © 2023 by the Journal of Global Health. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.7189/jogh.13.04062
PMCID: PMC10436679
PMID: 37594179 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure of interest: The authors completed 
the ICMJE Disclosure of Interest Form (available upon request from the 
corresponding author) and disclose no relevant interests.


168. J Dairy Sci. 2016 Nov;99(11):8607-8613. doi: 10.3168/jds.2016-11310. Epub 2016 
Aug 31.

Investigation of the antibiotic resistance and biofilm-forming ability of 
Staphylococcus aureus from subclinical bovine mastitis cases.

Aslantaş Ö(1), Demir C(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Mustafa Kemal 
University, 31030 Hatay, Turkey. Electronic address: ozkanaslantas@yahoo.com.
(2)Vocational School of Health Services, Department of the Medical Documentation 
and Secretarial, Mardin Artuklu University, 47500 Mardin, Turkey.

A total of 112 Staphylococcus aureus isolates obtained from subclinical bovine 
mastitis cases were examined for antibiotic susceptibility and biofilm-forming 
ability as well as genes responsible for antibiotic resistance, biofilm-forming 
ability, and adhesin. Antimicrobial susceptibility of the isolates were 
determined by disk diffusion method. Biofilm forming ability of the isolates 
were investigated by Congo red agar method, standard tube method, and microplate 
method. The genes responsible for antibiotic resistance, biofilm-forming 
ability, and adhesion were examined by PCR. Five isolates (4.5%) were identified 
as methicillin-resistant Staph. aureus by antibiotic susceptibility testing and 
confirmed by mecA detection. The resistance rates to penicillin, ampicillin, 
tetracycline, erythromycin, trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, enrofloxacin, and 
amoxicillin-clavulanic acid were 45.5, 39.3, 33, 26.8, 5.4, 0.9, and 0.9%, 
respectively. All isolates were susceptible against vancomycin and gentamicin. 
The blaZ (100%), tetK (67.6%), and ermA (70%) genes were the most common 
antibiotic-resistance genes. Using Congo red agar, microplate, and standard tube 
methods, 70.5, 67, and 62.5% of the isolates were found to be biofilm producers, 
respectively. The percentage rate of icaA, icaD, and bap genes in Staph. aureus 
isolates were 86.6, 86.6, and 13.4%, respectively. The adhesion molecules fnbA, 
can, and clfA were detected in 87 (77.7%), 98 (87.5%), and 75 (70%) isolates, 
respectively. The results indicated that Staph. aureus from sublinical bovine 
mastitis cases were mainly resistant to β-lactams and, to a lesser extent, to 
tetracycline and erythromycin. Also, biofilm- and adhesion-related genes, which 
are increasingly accepted as an important virulence factor in the pathogenesis 
of Staph. aureus infections, were detected at a high rate.

Copyright © 2016 American Dairy Science Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.3168/jds.2016-11310
PMID: 27592437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Infect Drug Resist. 2018 Oct 30;11:2073-2080. doi: 10.2147/IDR.S185511. 
eCollection 2018.

Efficacy of a 14-day quadruple-therapy regimen for third-line Helicobacter 
pylori eradication.

Huang HT(1), Wang HM(1), Yang SC(1), Tai WC(1), Liang CM(1), Wu KL(1), Lee 
CH(2), Chuah SK(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Hepato-Gastroenterology, Department of Internal Medicine, 
Kaohsiung Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Chang Gung University College of 
Medicine, Niao-Song District, Kaohsiung 833, Taiwan, gimy54861439@gmail.com.
(2)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Internal Medicine, Kaohsiung 
Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Chang Gung University College of Medicine, 
Niao-Song District, Kaohsiung 833, Taiwan.

PURPOSE: To assess the efficacy of amoxicillin, tetracycline, high-dose 
metronidazole, and a proton-pump inhibitor for third-line Helicobacter pylori 
eradication.
METHODS: We enrolled 70 consecutive patients who had registered, failed to 
respond to two rounds of H. pylori eradication, and undergone endoscopy for H. 
pylori culture. Seven patients were lost to follow-up. Patients were treated 
according to the results of antibiotic-susceptibility testing reports (cultured 
group, n=39). Those who failed the H. pylori culture were prescribed 14-day 
quadruple therapy containing esomeprazole 40 mg twice daily, amoxicillin 1 g 
twice daily, tetracycline 500 mg four times daily, and metronidazole 500 mg 
three times daily (empirical group, n=24). A follow-up urea breath test was 
performed 8 weeks later.
RESULTS: Antibiotic-resistance rates were 79.5% (clarithromycin), 94.9% 
(levofloxacin), 66.7% (metronidazole), 2.6% (amoxicillin), and 0 (tetracycline). 
Eradication rates attained by the cultured and empirical group were 89.7% (95% 
CI 72.7%-97.1%) and 58.3% (95% CI 36.6%-77.9%) in per-protocol analysis 
(P=0.004) and 81.4% (95% CI 66.6%-91.6%) and 51.8% (95% CI 31.9%-71.3%) in 
intention-to-treat analysis (P=0.014), respectively. Culture-guided therapy was 
the only clinical factor influencing the efficacy of H. pylori eradication (OR 
0.16, 95% CI 0.04-0.60; P=0.006). Despite the high metronidazole-resistance rate 
(66.7%) after two treatment failures, the eradication rate in patients with this 
condition was 84%.
CONCLUSION: Empirical 14-day modified quadruple therapy is not acceptable as an 
alternative third-line rescue H. pylori treatment. The success rate of 
third-line susceptibility-guided treatment was near 90%. This report is valuable 
as a reminder to medical practitioners that rather than a try-and-see approach, 
susceptibility-guided therapy should always be considered whenever possible for 
patients who have undergone several treatment failures.

DOI: 10.2147/IDR.S185511
PMCID: PMC6214414
PMID: 30464550

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors report no conflicts of 
interest in this work.


170. Curr Opin Pediatr. 2010 Feb;22(1):77-82. doi: 10.1097/MOP.0b013e32833502e7.

Re-evaluation of antibiotic treatment of streptococcal pharyngitis.

Baltimore RS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Yale University School of Medicine, Box 208064, 333 
Cedar Street, New Haven, CT 06520-8064, USA. robert.baltimore@yale.edu

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Recently, recommendations from the American Heart Association 
regarding treatment of streptococcal tonsillo-pharyngitis were revised. This 
review provides the background for changes that were made in comparison with the 
group's 1995 recommendations. Recent papers on other issues relating to group A 
Streptococcus are also reviewed.
RECENT FINDINGS: For antibiotic treatment of streptococcal tonsillopharyngitis 
the recommendations for injectable penicillin and for oral erythromycin are 
downgraded. First choice remains penicillin V but there is increasing acceptance 
of once-daily amoxicillin.
CONCLUSION: Streptococcal pharyngitis is still a major infectious disease seen 
in pediatric office practice. The main job of the practitioner is to make an 
accurate diagnosis and provide appropriate treatment in timely fashion in order 
to prevent acute rheumatic fever.

DOI: 10.1097/MOP.0b013e32833502e7
PMID: 19996970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Front Pharmacol. 2019 Apr 16;10:394. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2019.00394. eCollection 
2019.

Initial Trials With Susceptibility-Based and Empiric Anti-H. pylori Therapies in 
Mongolia.

Byambajav TO(1), Bira N(1), Choijamts G(2), Davaadorj D(1), Gantuya B(1)(3), 
Sarantuya T(4), Sarantuya G(4), Enkhtsetseg A(5), Erdenetsogt D(1), Battulga 
A(6), Tserentogtokh T(7), Matsuhisa T(8), Yamaoka Y(3)(9), Oyuntsetseg K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, School of Medicine, Mongolian 
National University of Medical Sciences, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Otoch Manramba University of Mongolia, 
Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia.
(3)Department of Environmental and Preventive Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, 
Oita University, Yufu, Japan.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine, Intermed Hospital, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia.
(5)Department of Laboratory, General Hospital of Defense and Law Enforcement, 
Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia.
(6)Department of Endoscopy, Ulaanbaatar Songdo Hospital, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia.
(7)Department of Gastroenterology, State Central Third Hospital, Ulaanbaatar, 
Mongolia.
(8)Department of Gastroenterology, Nippon Medical School, Tama-Nagayama 
University Hospital, Tama-Nagayama, Japan.
(9)Gastroenterology and Hepatology Section, Department of Medicine, Baylor 
College of Medicine, Houston, TX, United States.

Background: Mongolia has a high prevalence of Helicobacter pylori infection and 
gastric cancer. We conducted a prospective, randomized, single-blind study to 
evaluate the efficacy of common regimens in Mongolia and to obtain specimens for 
susceptibility testing. Methods: Empiric treatments: 270 patients with confirmed 
H. pylori infection were randomized to receive 10 days clarithromycin-triple 
therapy (Clari-TT) (n = 90), modified bismuth quadruple therapy (M-BQT) (n = 
90), or sequential therapy (ST) (n = 90). A second group of 46 patients received 
susceptibility-based Clari-TT. H. pylori was cultured from 131 patients and 
susceptibility testing was performed. H. pylori eradication was confirmed by 
stool antigen 4 weeks after the therapy. Results: Intention-to-treat (ITT) 
analysis cure rates were 71.1% (95% CI = 61.7-80.5%) for Clari-TT, 87.8% (95% CI 
= 81-94.6%) for M-BQT, 67.8% (95% CI = 58.1-77.5%) for ST vs. 89.1% (95% CI = 
86-98.2%) for susceptibility-based Clari-TT. Per-protocol (PP) analysis results 
for these therapies were 72.7% (63.4-82%), 89.8% (83.5-96.1%), 68.5% 
(58.8-78.2%), and 97.6% (89.5-99.8%), respectively. Among 131 cultured H. 
pylori, resistance rates to amoxicillin, clarithromycin, and metronidazole were 
8.4, 37.4, and 74%, respectively. Conclusion: In Mongolia, the prevalence of H. 
pylori resistance is high requiring bismuth quadruple therapy or 
susceptibility-based therapy to obtain acceptable cure rates.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2019.00394
PMCID: PMC6476916
PMID: 31040783


172. Ter Arkh. 2018 Aug 27;90(8):33-39. doi: 10.26442/terarkh201890833-39.

Evaluation of the efficacy and safety of the hybrid scheme for eradication 
therapy of Helicobacter pylori infection.

Yurenev GL(1), Partzvania-Vinogradova EV(1), Andreev DN(1), Dicheva DT(1), Maiev 
IV(1).

Author information:
(1)A.I. Evdokimov Moscow State Medicine and Dentistry, University of the 
Ministry of Health of Russia, Moscow, Russia.

AIM: The aim is to conduct a comprehensive comparative study of the efficacy and 
safety of the hybrid scheme of eradication therapy (ET) in patients with peptic 
ulcer of the stomach or duodenum associated with Helicobacter pylori.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Materials and methods. In a prospective, randomized 
comparative study, 180 patients were divided into three equal groups of 60 
people, depending on the prescribed 10-day ET regimen. Group 1 - the standard 
triple scheme (omeprazole, amoxicillin and clarithromycin); group 2 - 
four-component therapy with preparations of bismuth (omeprazole, tetracycline, 
metronidazole, bismuth tricalium dicitrate); group 3 - hybrid scheme (first 5 
days: omeprazole and amoxicillin, the next 5 days: omeprazole, amoxicillin, 
clarithromycin, metronidazole). The effectiveness of ET was determined with the 
help of a breath test a month after the end of therapy. Adverse events were 
recorded by patients in specially developed diaries. Pharmacoeconomic analysis 
was carried out using the &quot;cost-effectiveness&quot; method with calculation 
of the CER coefficient.
RESULTS: Results and discussion. The effectiveness of standard triple therapy 
was 73.3% (ITT), 75.9% (PP); four-component therapy with bismuth preparations - 
78.3% (ITT), 82.4% (PP); hybrid scheme - 85% (ITT), 91% (PP). Hybrid therapy 
proved to be significantly more effective than standard triple therapy with a 
odds ratio (OR) of 3.25; 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.08-9.73 (p=0.043, 
χ2=4.75, p-level=0.029298). The incidence of adverse events with the use of 
triple, four-component and hybrid ET regimens was 15; 18.3 and 28.3% 
respectively. The OR of at least one adverse event in patients receiving a 
hybrid ET regimen compared with triple therapy was 2.24 (95% CI 0.91-5.53, 
p=0.0823, χ2=3.14, p-level=0.076394), and compared with the four-component 
therapy - 1.76 (95% CI 0.74-4.17, p=0.2804, χ2=1.68, p-level=0.194924). 
According to the results of the pharmacoeconomic analysis, the most profitable 
from an economic point of view was a hybrid ET scheme with a CER of 20.1.
CONCLUSION: The conclusion. Hybrid therapy showed the greatest effectiveness in 
comparison with the triple and four-component ET regimens, however, the 
incidence of side effects in patients receiving the hybrid ET scheme was higher, 
although it remained within the acceptable level for use in clinical practice. 
Pharmacoeconomic analysis also showed the advisability of designating a hybrid 
ET scheme. The obtained data allow to draw a conclusion about the necessity of 
further study of the efficiency and safety of the hybrid ET scheme.

DOI: 10.26442/terarkh201890833-39
PMID: 30701937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2020 Jan;18(1):89-98. doi: 
10.1016/j.cgh.2019.03.048. Epub 2019 Apr 10.

Combination of Bismuth and Standard Triple Therapy Eradicates Helicobacter 
pylori Infection in More than 90% of Patients.

McNicholl AG(1), Bordin DS(2), Lucendo A(3), Fadeenko G(4), Fernandez MC(5), 
Voynovan I(6), Zakharova NV(7), Sarsenbaeva AS(8), Bujanda L(9), Perez-Aisa 
Á(10), Vologzhanina L(11), Zaytsev O(12), Ilchishina T(13), Coba C(14), Lasala 
JP(15), Alekseenko S(16), Modolell I(17), Molina-Infante J(18), Ruiz-Zorrilla 
Lopez R(19), Alonso-Galan H(9), Moreno NF(10), Hinojosa J(10), Santaella I(10), 
Varela P(14), Gonzalez-Cordero PL(18), Barrio J(20), Dominguez-Jimenez JL(21), 
Nuñez O(22), Alcedo J(23), Nyssen OP(1), Caldas M(1), Donday MG(1), Shvetz 
O(24), Megraud F(25), O'Morain C(26), Gisbert JP(27).

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterology Unit, Hospital Universitario de La Princesa, Instituto de 
Investigación Sanitaria Princesa, Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, and Centro de 
Investigación Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades Hepáticas y Digestivas, Madrid, 
Spain.
(2)Department of Pancreatobiliary and Upper GI Diseases, Moscow Clinical 
Scientific Center, Moscow, Russia.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology, Hospital General de Tomelloso and Centro de 
Investigación Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades Hepáticas y Digestivas, 
Tomelloso, Spain.
(4)Digestive Ukrainian Academy of Medical Sciences, Kyiv, Ukraine.
(5)Digestive Unit, Hospital de Valme, Sevilla, Spain.
(6)Digestive Unit, Moscow Clinical Scientific Center Named After A.S. Loginov, 
Moscow, Russia.
(7)North-western State Medical University St Petersburg, Russia.
(8)Gastroenterologist Department of Regional Clinical Hospital №3, Chelyabinsk, 
Russia.
(9)Department of Gastroenterology, Hospital Donostia/Instituto Biodonostia, 
Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades Hepáticas y Digestivas, 
Universidad del País Vasco, San Sebastián, Spain.
(10)Digestive Unit, Agencia Sanitaria Costa del Sol, Marbella, Spain.
(11)Gastroenterology Unit Gastrocentr, Perm, Russia.
(12)First Clinical Medical Centre, Kovrov, Russia.
(13)SM-Clinic, Saint-Petersburg, Russia.
(14)Hospital de Cabueñes, Asturias, Spain.
(15)Digestive Service, HM Sanchinarro, Madrid, Spain.
(16)Far Eastern State Medical University, Khabarovsk, Khabarovsk Krai, Russia.
(17)Consorci Sanitari de Terrassa, Barcelona, Spain.
(18)Hospital San Pedro de Alcántara and CIBEREHD, Cáceres, Spain.
(19)Hospital de Sierrallana, Torrelavega, Spain.
(20)Gastroenterology Unit, Rio Hortega University Hospital, Valladolid, Spain.
(21)Gastroenterology Unit, Hospital Alto Guadalquivir, Jaen, Spain.
(22)Gastroenterology Unit, Clinica Nuestra Señora del Rosario, Madrid, Spain.
(23)Gastroenterology Unit, Hospital de Barbastro, Huesca, Spain.
(24)Medical University, Kyiv, Ukraine.
(25)Laboratoire de Bactériologie, Hôpital Pellegrin, Bordeaux, France.
(26)Department of Clinical Medicine, Trinity College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.
(27)Gastroenterology Unit, Hospital Universitario de La Princesa, Instituto de 
Investigación Sanitaria Princesa, Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, and Centro de 
Investigación Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades Hepáticas y Digestivas, Madrid, 
Spain. Electronic address: javier.p.gisbert@gmail.com.

Comment in
    Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2019 Dec;17(13):2822-2823. doi: 
10.1016/j.cgh.2019.05.054.
    Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2019 Dec;17(13):2822. doi: 
10.1016/j.cgh.2019.05.036.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Due to the poor eradication rates of standard triple therapy, 
the addition of bismuth salts has been proposed for first-line eradication of 
Helicobacter pylori. We assessed the effectiveness and safety of the combination 
of bismuth and the standard, clarithromycin-containing triple therapy in 
eradication of H pylori infection, using data from a large multi-center 
registry.
METHODS: We performed an interim analysis of data from the European Registry on 
H pylori Management, a prospective trial registering clinical data and outcomes 
from infected patients from 27 countries in Europe since 2013. We extracted data 
on 1141 treatment-naïve patients who received first-line treatment with bismuth 
salts (240 mg) and a proton pump inhibitor (57% received esomeprazole, 18% 
received omeprazole, 11% received pantoprazole, and 14% received rabeprazole), 
amoxicillin (1 g), and clarithromycin (500 mg), all taken twice daily.
RESULTS: Intention to treat and per-protocol rates of eradication were 88% and 
94%, respectively. Intention to treat eradication increased to 93% in patients 
who received 14-day treatments. Adverse events occurred in 36% of patients; 76% 
of these events were mild, with a mean duration of 6 days. In multivariate 
analysis, eradication was associated with treatment compliance (odds ratio [OR], 
13.0), a double dose (equivalent to 40 mg omeprazole) of proton pump inhibitor 
(OR, 4.7), and 14-day duration of treatment (OR, 2.0).
CONCLUSIONS: In an analysis of data from a large multi-center registry, we found 
the addition of bismuth to 14-day standard triple therapy with clarithromycin 
and amoxicillin to eradicate H pylori infection in more than 90% of patients, 
based on intention to treat analysis, with an acceptable safety profile and 
level of adherence. ClinicalTrials.gov no: NCT02328131.

Copyright © 2020 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2019.03.048
PMID: 30978536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Ned Tijdschr Tandheelkd. 2019 Oct;126(10):507-511. doi: 
10.5177/ntvt.2019.10.19051.

[Prophylaxis with antibiotics after radiotherapy in the head and neck area].

[Article in Dutch; Abstract available in Dutch from the publisher]

Rosenberg AJWP, Dieleman FJ.

A side effect of radiotherapy in the head and neck area is a reduction of the 
capillary blood flow and with it, a reduction in local defenses. Depending on 
the duration and intensity of the radiation, hypoxia, hypocellularity and 
hypovascularity, may occur, resulting in an increased risk of infection. 
Hyposalivation, a commonly occurring phenomenon after radiotherapy, leads to a 
higher caries sensitivity. To keep oral health at an acceptable level as much as 
possible, teeth are checked by a dentist prior to radiotherapy. Non-essential 
teeth and teeth with pathology are extracted, in order to prevent future 
problems. Dental treatment in the area treated with radiation will nevertheless 
sometimes be necessary after radiotherapy. Because the risk of infection is high 
and may result in the loss of part of the jaw, antibiotic prophylaxis is started 
prior to invasive treatment. In general, amoxicillin 500 mg 3dd 1 is chosen for 
14 days. After treatment, wound healing should be checked by the specialist.

Publisher: Radiotherapie in het hoofd-halsgebied heeft als neveneffect dat de 
doorbloeding en daarmee de afweer lokaal vermindert. Afhankelijk van de duur en 
de intensiteit van de bestraling kan onder andere hypoxie, hypocellular iteit en 
hypovasculariteit optreden, met een verhoogd infectie risico. Hyposalivatie, een 
veel voorkomend verschijnsel na radiotherapie, geeft een hogere gevoeligheid 
voor cariës. Om de mondgezondheid zoveel mogelijk op een aanvaardbaar peil te 
houden, wordt voorafgaand aan de radiotherapie het gebit gesaneerd. Niet vitale 
gebitselementen en gebitselementen met pathologie worden geëxtraheerd om 
toekomstige problemen te voorkomen. Toch zal na radiotherapie een 
tandheelkundige behandeling in het bestraalde gebied soms nodig zijn. Omdat het 
infectiegevaar zo groot is, en tot verlies van een deel van de kaak kan leiden, 
wordt voorafgaand aan invasieve behandelingen gestart met AB-profylaxe. In het 
algemeen wordt gekozen voor amoxicilline 500 mg 3dd gedurende 14 dagen. Na de 
behandeling dient controle op de wondgenezing door de specialist plaats te 
vinden.

DOI: 10.5177/ntvt.2019.10.19051
PMID: 31613279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. Food Addit Contam Part A Chem Anal Control Expo Risk Assess. 2018 
Apr;35(4):695-705. doi: 10.1080/19440049.2018.1433333. Epub 2018 Feb 20.

Stability study of veterinary drugs in standard solutions for LC-MS/MS screening 
in food.

Desmarchelier A(1), Feuerrigel P(2), Fathi Ahmed H(1), Moulin J(1), Beck A(1), 
Mujahid C(1), Bessaire T(1), Savoy MC(1), Mottier P(1).

Author information:
(1)a Nestlé Research Center , Institute of Food Safety and Analytical Science , 
Lausanne , Switzerland.
(2)b LGC Labor GmbH , Analytical Service , Augsburg , Germany.

A study on stability of veterinary drugs in standard solutions stored at -80°C 
and at -20°C was conducted over 1 year. Data were acquired on 152 individual 
stock standard solutions and also on 15 family mixes and 2 working standard 
solutions. All solutions were prepared, stored and compared 1 year later against 
freshly prepared ones by LC-MS/MS. A statistical analysis was performed to set 
the acceptability criteria, taking into account the variability of standard 
preparations. In individual stock standard solutions stored at -80°C (12 months) 
and -20°C (9 months), stability was demonstrated for 141 and 140 out of 152 
compounds, i.e. for 92% and 93% of compounds, respectively. Drugs were even more 
stable when solubilised in either diluted family mixes or working standard 
solutions, with more than 99% and 94% of compounds found unaltered when stored 
at -80°C and at -20°C, respectively. In mixes, beta-lactams from the 
cephalosporin (cefadroxil and cephalexin) and penicillin (amoxicillin and 
ampicillin) families were found to be the least stable compounds when stored at 
-20°C (6 months), necessitating storage at -80°C to achieve a 1-year shelf life. 
The study also evidenced solubility issues for two sulfonamides (sulfadiazine 
and sulfamerazine) in methanol-based solutions. An independent stability study 
conducted by a second laboratory confirmed the 1-year stability of 3 family 
mixes-quinolones, sulfonamides and tetracyclines.

DOI: 10.1080/19440049.2018.1433333
PMID: 29377759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Acta Gastroenterol Belg. 2024 Apr-Jun;87(2):235-240. doi: 10.51821/87.2.12142.

Bismuth-based quadruple therapy versus standard triple therapy for the 
eradication of Helicobacter pylori in Belgium: a multicentre, non-blinded 
randomized, prospective study.

François S(1), Mana F(2), Ntounda R(3), Lamy V(4), Cadranel S(5), Bontems P(5), 
Miendje Deyi V(6), Macken E(7), Kindt S(1).

Author information:
(1)Vrije Universiteit Brussel (VUB), Universitair Ziekenhuis Brussel (UZ 
Brussel), Department of Gastroenterology and hepatology, Brussels, Belgium.
(2)Kliniek Sint-Jan, Department of Gastroenterology and hepatology, Brussels, 
Belgium.
(3)Centre Hospitalier Universitaire Saint Pierre, Department of Gastroenterology 
and hepatology, Brussels, Belgium.
(4)Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de Charleroi, Department of Gastroenterology 
and hepatology, Charleroi, Belgium.
(5)Huderf, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire Brugmann, Department of Paediatrics, 
Brussels, Belgium.
(6)Centre Hospitalier Universitaire Saint Pierre, Centre Hospitalier 
Universitaire Brugmann, Department of Clinical Biology, Brussels, Belgium.
(7)Universitair Ziekenhuis Antwerpen, Department of Gastroenterology and 
hepatology, Antwerpen, Belgium.

BACKGROUND: Helicobacter pylori (Hp) infection predisposes to malignant and 
non-malignant diseases warranting eradication. In Belgium, resistance rates for 
clarithromycin demonstrate regional variations making the use of standard triple 
therapy (STT) borderline acceptable. According to a recent Belgian survey, STT 
and bismuth-based quadruple therapy (BQT), are equally frequent prescribed as 
first line treatment for treatment naïve Hp positive patients. This study aims 
to evaluate the eradication rates (ER) of BQT versus STT.
METHODS: Multicentre, non-blinded randomized, prospective study comparing ER in 
treatment-naïve Hp positive patients. ER were compared by intention to treat 
(ITT) and per protocol (PP) analysis.
RESULTS: Overall 250 patients were included (STT 126, BQT 124). Seventeen 
patients were lost to follow-up (6,8%). No significant difference in ER between 
BQT and STT was observed in ITT (73% vs 68%, p= 0,54) neither in PP analysis 
(81% vs 75%, p= 0,33). Side effects and endoscopic findings were comparable 
between groups. Post-hoc analysis showed no differences according to gender or 
site allocation.
CONCLUSION: The numerical advantage of BQT did not translate in a significant 
improvement of ER when compared with STT. These results question the 
cost-effectiveness of BQT, while confirming the suboptimal eradication rates on 
STT. A nationwide monitoring of resistance patterns, maximal investments in 
treatment adherence as well as a detailed follow-up of the changing treatment 
landscape are mandatory to continuously optimise Hp ER in Belgium.

© Acta Gastro-Enterologica Belgica.

DOI: 10.51821/87.2.12142
PMID: 39210755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest


177. BMC Chem. 2024 Jun 12;18(1):111. doi: 10.1186/s13065-024-01215-1.

Validated chromatographic approach for determination of two ternary mixtures in 
newly approved formulations for helicobacter pylori eradication: assessment of 
greenness profile and content uniformity.

Salem YA(1), Elsabour SA(2), El-Masry AA(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Sinai 
University, Kantara Branch, Ismailia, 41636, Egypt. yomnasalem26@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Analytical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, 
Elsalehya El Gadida University, Elsalehya El Gadida, Sharkia, Egypt.
(3)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Mansoura University, 
Mansoura, 35516, Egypt. dr.Amal90@mans.edu.eg.

A new, sensitive, and rapid isocratic reversed phase chromatographic method 
(RP-HPLC-UV) was developed for simultaneous separation of two newly 
co-formulated antiulcer mixtures; Amoxicillin, Vonoprazan and Clarithromycin 
[Mixture (I)], and Amoxicillin, Lansoprazole and Clarithromycin [Mixture (II)]. 
Analytical separation was performed using a Promosil C18 column and ultraviolet 
detection at 210 nm. The separation was achieved within only 8 min. For both 
mixtures, an aqueous solution, composed of (Acetonitrile: Methanol: 0. 2 M 
phosphoric acid) within ratio of (30: 30: 40) adjusted to final pH 3.0, was the 
mobile phase. This method was validated as per the International Conference on 
Harmonization guidelines. The linearity ranges of these proposed method of the 
(Mixture (I)) were 25.0-400.0 µg/mL Amoxicillin, 0.5-8.0 µg/mL Vonoprazan, and 
12.5-200.0 µg/mL Clarithromycin. And the linearity ranges of the (Mixture (II)) 
were 10.0-300.0 µg/mL Amoxicillin, 0.3-9.0 µg/mL Lansoprazole and 
5.0-150.0 µg/mL Clarithromycin. This method was firstly applied for effective 
separation of Amoxicillin, Vonoprazan and Clarithromycin [Mixture (I)]. It 
fulfilled good repeatability, sensitivity, and accuracy (R.S.D. < 2.0%). The 
mean recoveries of the analytes in their Tri-Pak formulations were acceptable. 
The greenness of the developed chromatographic methods was assessed using an 
Eco-scale method and it was applied for content uniformity testing as per the 
United States Pharmacopoeia (USP) and the acceptance value of Amoxicillin, in 
Mixture (I) was 2.88, the acceptance values for Amoxicillin, Lansoprazole in 
Mixture (II) were 2.592, 2.424, respectively.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13065-024-01215-1
PMCID: PMC11167897
PMID: 38863068

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflict of interest. The 
authors declare that they have no known competing financial interest or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence this work.


178. Antibiotics (Basel). 2023 Jan 7;12(1):111. doi: 10.3390/antibiotics12010111.

Changes in Medication Prescribing Due to COVID-19 in Dental Practice in 
Croatia-National Study.

Šutej I(1), Lepur D(2)(3), Bašić K(1), Šimunović L(4), Peroš K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, School of Dental Medicine, University of Zagreb, 
10000 Zagreb, Croatia.
(2)Department of Infectious Diseases, School of Dental Medicine, University of 
Zagreb, 10000 Zagreb, Croatia.
(3)University Hospital for Infectious Diseases "Dr. Fran Mihaljević", 10000 
Zagreb, Croatia.
(4)Department of Orthodontics, School of Dental Medicine, University of Zagreb, 
10000 Zagreb, Croatia.

The 2019 coronavirus pandemic (COVID-19) has affected clinical practice and, 
consequently, drug prescribing in dental practice. We investigated how the 
pandemic affected the prescribing behavior of dentists in Croatia. Data on 
prescribing practices for this study were provided by the Croatian Health 
Insurance Institute. The analysis included the number of prescriptions, costs, 
and the number of packages prescribed. The World Health Organization's defined 
daily dose per 1000 inhabitants (DID) per day was used as an objective 
utilization comparison. During the first pandemic year, prescribing practice 
changed the most. Wide-spectrum antibiotics, analgesics, and antiseptics showed 
the highest trend in change. A statistically significant change in prescribing 
practices during the pandemic period was noted for amoxicillin with clavulanic 
acid, ibuprofen, and ketoprofen which showed an increase in trend, while 
cephalexin and diclofenac showed a statistically significant decrease. The 
highest increase in trend was recorded for azithromycin, at +39.3%. The COVID-19 
pandemic has been associated with a marked increase in medication utilization, 
especially in the first year of the pandemic. The increase in wide-spectrum 
antibiotic classes needs to be addressed and regulated so that patients accept 
that antibiotics are not a substitute for dental treatment and dentists always 
start treatment with narrow-spectrum antibiotics regardless of specific times, 
as is the case with the pandemic.

DOI: 10.3390/antibiotics12010111
PMCID: PMC9854617
PMID: 36671312

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


179. PLoS One. 2022 Jun 30;17(6):e0268277. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0268277. 
eCollection 2022.

Simplified antibiotic regimens for young infants with possible serious bacterial 
infection when the referral is not feasible in the Democratic Republic of the 
Congo.

Lokangaka A(1), Ishoso D(1), Tshefu A(1), Kalonji M(1), Takoy P(1), Kokolomami 
J(1), Otomba J(1)(2), Aboubaker S(3), Qazi SA(3), Nisar YB(4), Bahl R(4), Bose 
C(5), Coppieters Y(6).

Author information:
(1)Faculté de Médecine, Kinshasa School of Public Health, Université de 
Kinshasa, Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of the Congo.
(2)World Health Organization, Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of the Congo.
(3)World Health Organization (Consultants), Geneva, Switzerland.
(4)Department of Maternal, Newborn, Child and Adolescent Health and Ageing, 
World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland.
(5)University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, 
United States of America.
(6)School of Public Health, Université Libre de Bruxelles, Brussels, Belgium.

INTRODUCTION: Neonates with serious bacterial infections should be treated with 
injectable antibiotics after hospitalization, which may not be feasible in many 
low resource settings. In 2015, the World Health Organization (WHO) launched a 
guideline for the management of young infants (0-59 days old) with possible 
serious bacterial infection (PSBI) when referral for hospital treatment is not 
feasible. We evaluated the feasibility of the WHO guideline implementation in 
the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) to achieve high coverage of PSBI 
treatment.
METHODS: From April 2016 to March 2017, in a longitudinal, descriptive, mixed 
methods implementation research study, we implemented WHO PSBI guideline for 
sick young infants (0-59 dyas of age) in the public health programme setting in 
five health areas of North and South Ubangi Provinces with an overall population 
of about 60,000. We conducted policy dialogue with national and sub-national 
level government planners, decision-makers, academics and other stakeholders. We 
established a Technical Support Unit to provide implementation support. We built 
the capacity of health workers and managers and ensured the availability of 
necessary medicines and commodities. We followed infants with PSBI signs up to 
14 days. The research team systematically collected data on adherence to 
treatment and outcomes.
RESULTS: We identified 3050 live births and 285 (9.3%) young infants with signs 
of PSBI in the study area, of whom 256 were treated. Published data have 
reported 10% PSBI incidence rate in young infants. Therefore, the estimated 
coverage of treatment was 83.9% (256/305). Another 426 from outside the study 
catchment area were also identified with PSBI signs by the nurses of a health 
centre within the study area. Thus, a total of 711 young infants with PSBI were 
identified, 285 (40%) 7-59 days old infants had fast breathing (pneumonia), 141 
(20%) 0-6 days old had fast breathing (severe pneumonia), 233 (33%) had signs of 
clinical severe infection (CSI), and 52 (7%) had signs of critical illness. 
Referral to a hospital was advised to 426 (60%) infants with CSI, critical 
illness or severe pneumonia. The referral was refused by 282 families who 
accepted simplified antibiotic treatment on an outpatient basis at the health 
centres. Treatment failure among those who received outpatient treatment 
occurred in 10/128 (8%) with severe pneumonia, 25/147 (17%) with CSI, including 
one death, and 2/7 (29%) young infants with a critical illness. Among 285 
infants with pneumonia, 257 (90%) received oral amoxicillin treatment, and 8 
(3%) failed treatment. Adherence to outpatient treatment was 98% to 100% for 
various PSBI sub-categories. Among 144 infants treated in a hospital, 8% (1/13) 
with severe pneumonia, 23% (20/86) with CSI and 40% (18/45) with critical 
illness died.
CONCLUSION: Implementation of the WHO PSBI guideline when a referral was not 
possible was feasible in our context with high coverage. Without financial and 
technical input to strengthen the health system at all levels, including the 
community and the referral level, it may not be possible to achieve and sustain 
the same high treatment coverage.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0268277
PMCID: PMC9246187
PMID: 35771738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Rajiv Bahl and Yasir Bin Nisar are staff members 
of the World Health Organization. The expressed views and opinions do not 
necessarily express the policies of the World Health Organization. This does not 
alter our adherence to PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials.


180. Antibiotics (Basel). 2021 Dec 27;11(1):23. doi: 10.3390/antibiotics11010023.

Antimicrobial Resistance, Serologic and Molecular Characterization of E. coli 
Isolated from Calves with Severe or Fatal Enteritis in Bavaria, Germany.

Feuerstein A(1), Scuda N(1), Klose C(1), Hoffmann A(1), Melchner A(2), Boll 
K(1), Rettinger A(1), Fell S(3), Straubinger RK(4), Riehm JM(2).

Author information:
(1)Bavarian Health and Food Safety Authority, 91058 Erlangen, Germany.
(2)Bavarian Health and Food Safety Authority, 85764 Oberschleissheim, Germany.
(3)Chemical and Veterinary Investigation Office, 72488 Sigmaringen, Germany.
(4)Department of Veterinary Sciences, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Institute 
of Infectious Diseases and Zoonoses, Ludwig-Maximilians-University, 80539 
Munich, Germany.

Worldwide, enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) cause neonatal diarrhea and 
high mortality rates in newborn calves, leading to great economic losses. In 
Bavaria, Germany, no recent facts are available regarding the prevalence of 
virulence factors or antimicrobial resistance of ETEC in calves. Antimicrobial 
susceptibility of 8713 E. coli isolates obtained from 7358 samples of diseased 
or deceased diarrheic calves were investigated between 2015 to 2019. 
Considerably high rates of 84.2% multidrug-resistant and 15.8% extensively 
drug-resistant isolates were detected. The resistance situation of the first, 
second and third line antimicrobials for the treatment, here 
amoxicillin-clavulanate, enrofloxacin and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, is 
currently acceptable with mean non-susceptibility rates of 28.1%, 37.9% and 
50.0% over the investigated 5-year period. Furthermore, the ETEC serotypes 
O101:K28, O9:K35, O101:K30, O101:K32, O78:K80, O139:K82, O8:K87, O141:K85 and 
O147:K89, as well as the virulence factors F17, F41, F5, ST-I and stx1 were 
identified in a subset of samples collected in 2019 and 2020. The substantially 
high rates of multi- and extensively drug-resistant isolates underline the 
necessity of continuous monitoring regarding antimicrobial resistance to provide 
reliable prognoses and adjust recommendations for the treatment of bacterial 
infections in animals.

DOI: 10.3390/antibiotics11010023
PMCID: PMC8772957
PMID: 35052900

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


181. J Clin Med. 2021 Sep 24;10(19):4352. doi: 10.3390/jcm10194352.

The Application of High-Dose Proton Pump Inhibitor Induction Treatment before 
Dual Therapy for Helicobacter pylori Eradication: An Open-Label Random Trial.

Chen LW(1)(2), Chang LC(3), Hua CC(4), Liu CJ(1), Chou TS(1), Lin CL(1)(2), 
Chien RN(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Chang-Gung Memorial Hospital 
and University, Keelung Branch, Keelung 20401, Taiwan.
(2)Community Medicine Research Center, Chang-Gung Memorial Hospital and 
University, Keelung Branch, Keelung 20401, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Pathology, Chang-Gung Memorial Hospital and University, Keelung 
Branch, Keelung 20401, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine, Chang-Gung Memorial Hospital and University, 
Keelung Branch, Keelung 20401, Taiwan.

This was a prospective, randomized, open-label trial. Patients without previous 
Helicobacter pylori eradication therapy were randomly assigned to either a 
high-dose dual therapy (HDDT) group or a traditional clarithromycin/amoxicillin 
triple therapy (CATT) group. In the HDDT group, patients took rabeprazole, 20 
mg, four times per day for three days and then dual therapy with rabeprazole, 20 
mg, and amoxicillin, 500 mg, four times per day during the patient's breakfast, 
lunch, dinner, and bedtime for 14 days. In the CATT group, patients received 
conventional triple therapy for 14 days (rabeprazole 20 mg, amoxicillin 1 g, and 
clarithromycin 500 mg twice per day). In the HDDT group, the success rates of H. 
pylori eradication were 91.7% (95% confidence interval (CI): 0.78-0.97) by 
intention-to-treat (ITT) and 94.3% (95% CI: 0.79-0.99) by per-protocol (PP) 
analysis. In the CATT group, the eradication rates were 77.1% (95% CI: 
0.61-0.87) by ITT and 84.3% (95% CI: 0.66-0.94) by PP analysis. The study 
completion rates were 97.2% (35/36) in the HDDT group. Three-day high-dose 
rabeprazole induction treatment before dual therapy and a schedule of taking the 
drug at meal and bed times could achieve an acceptable H. pylori eradication 
rate (>90%) and good drug compliance.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm10194352
PMCID: PMC8509452
PMID: 34640370

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no competing interests that 
might be perceived to influence the results and/or the discussion reported in 
this article.


182. Ann Thorac Surg. 2004 Jul;78(1):282-5; discussion 285-6. doi: 
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2003.11.029.

Thoracoscopic evacuation of retained posttraumatic hemothorax.

Navsaria PH(1), Vogel RJ, Nicol AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Trauma Unit, Groote Schuur Hospital and the Faculty of 
Health Sciences, University of Cape Town, Cape Town, South Africa. 
navasaria@uctgsh1.uct.ac.za

BACKGROUND: Residual posttraumatic hemothoraces occur in 1% to 20% of patients 
managed with tube thoracostomy. Video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS) has 
emerged as an alternative to thoracotomy to evacuate these retained collections. 
This report reviews a recent trauma unit experience with thoracoscopic 
evacuation of hemothoraces.
METHODS: The records of all trauma patients undergoing surgical intervention for 
retained hemothoraces over the 30-month period January 2001 to June 2003 were 
reviewed.
RESULTS: The study included 46 patients. All sustained penetrating injuries, 40 
with stab and 6 with gunshot wounds. Twenty-two, 17, and 7 patients each had 
one, two and three attempts at drainage with tube thoracostomy, respectively. In 
37 patients (80%), retained infected/uninfected pleural fluid was successfully 
evacuated thoracoscopically. VATS failed in 9 (20%) patients and the procedure 
was converted to open thoracotomy. Dense adhesions were present in all 9 of 
these patients. The mean time interval between injury and thoracoscopy and 
thoracotomy, was 13.3 days (range 3-46 days) and 14.5 days (range 11-24 days), 
respectively. The mean volume of pleural fluid evacuated thoracoscopically was 
650 mL. The failure of VATS evacuation correlated with the empyema rate. The 
median postoperative stay was 5 days for both groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery is an accurate, safe, and 
reliable operative therapy for retained posttraumatic pleural collections, even 
in patients presenting later than the conventionally accepted 3- to 5-day window 
from the time of injury.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2003.11.029
PMID: 15223444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Praxis (Bern 1994). 2002 Nov 27;91(48):2093-9. doi: 
10.1024/0369-8394.91.48.2093.

[Helicobacter pylori. Update 2002].

[Article in German]

Schuster MJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik, Fachbereich Gastroenterologie, Städtische Kliniken 
Esslingen, Akademisches Lehrkrankenhaus der Universität Tübingen.

Helicobacter pylori infection has been recognized as the most important 
pathogenetic principal of peptic ulcer disease, atrophic gastritis, gastric 
adenocarcinoma and MALT lymphoma. At the moment efforts are made to clarify it's 
role in functional dyspepsia, and gastro-esophageal reflux disease. The complex 
interactions between H. pylori infection and NSAIDs is another field of ongoing 
research. Diagnosis and eradication therapy are standardized. Established 
indications are peptic ulcer disease, low-grade gastric MALT lymphoma, early 
gastric cancer treated by mucosal resection and partial gastrectomy for gastric 
cancer. Atrophic gastritis, known to be a precancerous lesion, as well as first 
degree relatives of patients with gastric cancer is another widely accepted 
indication for eradication therapy. The recommended eradication regimens combine 
a proton pump inhibitor with clarithromycin and either amoxicillin or 
metronidazole--for a week.

DOI: 10.1024/0369-8394.91.48.2093
PMID: 12508673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. BMC Public Health. 2020 Jul 29;20(1):1183. doi: 10.1186/s12889-020-09243-x.

Community knowledge and practices regarding antibiotic use in rural Mozambique: 
where is the starting point for prevention of antibiotic resistance?

Cambaco O(1), Alonso Menendez Y(1), Kinsman J(2), Sigaúque B(1), Wertheim H(3), 
Do N(4), Gyapong M(5), John-Langba J(6), Sevene E(1)(7), Munguambe K(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Centro de Investigação em Saúde de Manhiça (CISM), Manhiça, Mozambique.
(2)Department of Epidemiology and Global Health, Umeå University, Umeå, Sweden.
(3)Department of Medical Microbiology and Center for Infectious Diseases, 
Radboudumc, Nijmegen, Netherlands.
(4)Oxford University Clinical Research Unit, Hanoi, Vietnam.
(5)Centre for Health Policy and Implementation Research, Kintampo, Ghana.
(6)University of Kwazulu-Natal, Durban, South Africa.
(7)Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade Eduardo Mondlane, Maputo, Mozambique.
(8)Centro de Investigação em Saúde de Manhiça (CISM), Manhiça, Mozambique. 
khatia.munguambe@manhica.net.
(9)Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade Eduardo Mondlane, Maputo, Mozambique. 
khatia.munguambe@manhica.net.

BACKGROUND: Antibiotic misuse and other types of unnecessary use of antibiotics 
can contribute to accelerate the process of antibiotic resistance, which is 
considered a global concern, mostly affecting low-and middle-income countries 
(LMICs). In Mozambique there is limited evidence on community knowledge and 
practices regarding antibiotics and antibiotic resistance. As part of the ABACUS 
project, this paper describes knowledge and practices of antibiotic use among 
the general population in the semi-rural district of Manhiça to inform 
evidence-based communication intervention strategies for safer antibiotic use.
METHODS: The study was conducted in Manhiça, a semi-rural district of Southern 
Mozambique. Sixteen in-depth interviews and four focus group discussions (FGDs) 
were conducted with community members to explore lay knowledge and practices 
regarding antibiotics and awareness of antibiotic resistance. The qualitative 
data was analysed using a combination of content and thematic analysis. The SRQR 
guidelines for reporting qualitative studies was performed.
RESULTS: Although participants did not hold any consistent knowledge of 
antibiotics, their visual recognition of amoxicillin (distinct red yellow 
capsule) was acceptable, but less so for different types and brands of 
antibiotics. The majority of participants were aware of the term 'antibiotic', 
yet the definition they gave was rarely backed by biomedical knowledge. 
Participants associated antibiotics with certain colours, shapes and health 
conditions. Participants reported common habits that may contribute to 
resistance: not buying the full course, self-medication, sharing medicines and 
interruption of treatment. Most had never heard of the term 'antibiotic 
resistance' but were familiar with the phenomenon. They often understood the 
term 'resistance' as treatment failure and likened 'resistance' to 
non-compliance, ineffective medication, disease resistance or to an inability of 
the physical body to respond to it.
CONCLUSION: There is a broad understanding of the importance of medication 
compliance but not specifically of antibiotic resistance. In addition, there is 
a recognized gap between knowledge of responsible drug compliance and actual 
behaviour. Future qualitative research is required to further explore what 
determines this behaviour. The existing ability to visually identify amoxicillin 
by its distinct red and yellow appearance is informative for future awareness 
and behavioural change campaigns that may incorporate visual aids of 
antibiotics.

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-020-09243-x
PMCID: PMC7389384
PMID: 32727445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No competing interests were disclosed.


185. Turk J Gastroenterol. 2011 Dec;22(6):582-6. doi: 10.4318/tjg.2011.0255.

Assessment of Helicobacter pylori eradication rate of triple combination therapy 
containing levofloxacin.

Seven G(1), Cinar K, Yakut M, Idılman R, Ozden A.

Author information:
(1)University of Ankara, School of Medicine, Department of Gastroenterology, 
Ankara, Turkey. gulserenseven@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Owing to its high efficacy, ease of use, perfect adaptation and 
low complication profile, it is suggested that the triple therapy combination 
consisting of levofloxacin, amoxicillin and proton pump inhibitor may be an 
alternative for the first-line and second-line treatment of Helicobacter pylori. 
The aim of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of the triple therapy regimen 
containing two different doses of levofloxacin in the first-line eradication 
treatment.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: 110 naïve patients with anti Helicobacter pylori treatment 
indications according to Maastricht III Consensus Report were included to the 
study. Patients were randomized into two groups as the patients treated with a 
levofloxacin (500 mg o.i.d), amoxicillin (1 g b.i.d) and proton pump inhibitor 
(b.i.d) combination for 10 days (Group 1, n=60) and patients treated with a 
levofloxacin (500 mg b.i.d), amoxicillin (1 g b.i.d) and proton pump inhibitor 
(b.i.d) combination for 10 days (Group 2, n=50). Eradication rate was assessed 
at the 6th week of therapy just subsequent to termination of treatment.
RESULTS: 110 treatment-naïve patients (60 female, mean age: 44.1±14.7 years) 
were randomized and all patients completed the study. Helicobacter pylori 
eradication of the Group 1 was 60% and in Group 2 was 72.7%. The difference 
between the two groups was not statistically significant (p=0.427). None of 
patients experienced severe complication that would lead to discontinuation of 
therapy.
CONCLUSION: It is observed that the efficacy of the triple therapy combination 
containing levofloxacin is not within acceptable limits for the first-line 
Helicobacter pylori eradication.

DOI: 10.4318/tjg.2011.0255
PMID: 22287402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. J Vet Pharmacol Ther. 2020 Mar;43(2):179-188. doi: 10.1111/jvp.12842. Epub 2020 
Feb 10.

Considerations for application of biopharmaceutics classification system in 
chicken: Exemplified by seven drugs classification.

Liu Y(1), Li X(1), Zhang Y(1), Huang J(1), Wu Y(2), Wang L(1).

Author information:
(1)Joint International Research Laboratory of Animal Health and Food Safety, 
College of Veterinary Medicine, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing, China.
(2)Nanjing No. 13 Middle School, Nanjing, China.

Biopharmaceutics Classification System (BCS) has gained broad acceptance in 
promoting the development of human drugs. To date, the applicability of existing 
human BCS criteria has not been evaluated in chickens. The objective of this 
study was to discuss the feasibility of BCS extrapolation between species and 
establish a preliminary chicken BCS by classifying seven veterinary commonly 
used drugs including metronidazole, amoxicillin, sulfamethoxazole, sulfadiazine, 
ciprofloxacin hydrochloride, doxycycline hydrochloride, and trimethoprim. 
Firstly, we finished the determination of physiological parameters affecting 
solubility in chickens, including body temperature, gastrointestinal pH, and the 
fluid volume in the gastrointestinal tract (GI), and the drug is considered 
highly soluble in chicken BCS when the highest dose strength is soluble in 
20.40 ml (fed) or 6.73 ml (fasted) over the pH range of 1-8 at 41°C. Drug 
solubility classification was based on dose number calculation. Metronidazol and 
amoxicillin were classed differently under fed and fasted conditions. Secondly, 
we discussed the effect of ABC transporters (MDCK vs. MDCK-chAbcb1/Abcg2) and pH 
(5.5 vs. 7.4) on drug permeability and classification. The drug is classified as 
highly permeable when its permeability is equal to or greater than metoprolol 
tartrate. Though ABC transporters and pH significantly affected the permeability 
values of drugs (p < .05), the permeability classification of the drugs has not 
been changed except for sulfamethoxazole. This work highlights some of the 
significant challenges that would be encountered in order to develop a chicken 
BCS, this valuable information could serve as a helpful tool during chicken 
drugs development and to minimize the potential risks when developing 
formulations.

© 2020 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jvp.12842
PMID: 32039497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. AJOG Glob Rep. 2023 Apr 5;3(2):100206. doi: 10.1016/j.xagr.2023.100206. 
eCollection 2023 May.

Outcomes after extended azithromycin administration in preterm premature rupture 
of membranes.

DiSciullo AJ(1), Hand M(2), Iqbal SN(1), Chornock RL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, MedStar Washington Hospital Center, 
Washington, DC (Drs DiSciullo, Iqbal, and Chornock).
(2)Georgetown University School of Medicine, Washington, DC (Dr Hand).

BACKGROUND: Preterm premature rupture of membranes accounts for approximately 
one-quarter of all preterm deliveries and occurs in 2% to 3% of all pregnancies. 
With subclinical infection being a suspected cause of preterm premature rupture 
of membranes, the administration of prophylactic antibiotics is an accepted 
standard of care to extend the latency period. Historically, erythromycin was 
used in the antibiotic regimen recommended for women with preterm premature 
rupture of membranes during expectant management; however, azithromycin has 
recently been shown to be a suitable alternative.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to evaluate whether extended azithromycin 
administration affects the latency time in preterm premature rupture of 
membranes.
STUDY DESIGN: This was a retrospective multi-institutional cohort study in 
Washington, District of Columbia, of patients admitted from January 2012 to 
December 2019 with preterm premature rupture of membranes of singleton 
pregnancies between 23 0/7 and 33 6/7 weeks of gestation. Patients were excluded 
if they had multiple pregnancies, had an allergy to penicillin or macrolides, 
were in labor, had suspected placental abruptions, had overt chorioamnionitis, 
or had nonreassuring fetal status on presentation indicating the need for prompt 
delivery. Patients that received limited azithromycin administration (<2 days) 
and patients that received extended azithromycin administration (7 days) were 
compared. All patients otherwise received the institutional standard of 2 days 
of intravenous ampicillin followed by 5 days of oral amoxicillin. The primary 
outcome was length of gestational latency, defined as the time from membrane 
rupture to delivery. The selective secondary outcomes that were evaluated were 
rates of chorioamnionitis and adverse neonatal outcomes, including sepsis, 
respiratory distress, necrotizing enterocolitis, intraventricular hemorrhage, 
and neonatal death.
RESULTS: During the study period, 416 cases of preterm premature rupture of 
membranes were identified. Of the 287 patients who met the inclusion criteria, 
165 (57.5%) received limited azithromycin administration, and 122 (42.5%) 
received extended azithromycin administration. Adjusted median gestational 
latency was significantly longer for patients who received extended azithromycin 
administration, extended by >3 days (2.6 days [interquartile range, 2.2-3.1] for 
limited azithromycin administration vs 5.8 days [interquartile range, 4.8-6.9] 
for extended azithromycin administration; P<.001). Neonatal secondary outcome 
evaluation was performed on 216 cases (76%). There was no difference in 
chorioamnionitis or adverse neonatal outcomes between the 2 groups.
CONCLUSION: Among patients with preterm premature rupture of membranes, extended 
azithromycin administration was associated with increased latency, without any 
effect on other maternal or neonatal outcomes.

© 2023 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.xagr.2023.100206
PMCID: PMC10193115
PMID: 37213792


188. Eur J Med Chem. 2014 Mar 3;74:411-26. doi: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2013.11.045. Epub 
2014 Jan 18.

Pharmaceutical salts and cocrystals involving amino acids: a brief structural 
overview of the state-of-art.

Tilborg A(1), Norberg B(2), Wouters J(3).

Author information:
(1)Unité de Chimie Physique Théorique et Structurale, Dept. Chemistry, 
University of Namur, 61, Rue de Bruxelles, B-5000 Namur, Belgium. Electronic 
address: anaelle.tilborg@unamur.be.
(2)Unité de Chimie Physique Théorique et Structurale, Dept. Chemistry, 
University of Namur, 61, Rue de Bruxelles, B-5000 Namur, Belgium. Electronic 
address: bernadette.norberg@unamur.be.
(3)Unité de Chimie Physique Théorique et Structurale, Dept. Chemistry, 
University of Namur, 61, Rue de Bruxelles, B-5000 Namur, Belgium. Electronic 
address: johan.wouters@unamur.be.

Salification of new drug substances in order to improve physico-chemical or 
solid-state properties (e.g. dissolution rate or solubility, appropriate workup 
process, storage for further industrial and marketing development) is a 
well-accepted procedure. Amino acids, like aspartic acid, lysine or arginine 
take a great part in this process and are implicated in several different 
formulations of therapeutic agent families, including antibiotics (amoxicillin 
from beta lactam class or cephalexin from cephalosporin class), NSAIDs 
(ketoprofen, ibuprofen and naproxen from profen family, acetylsalicylic acid) or 
antiarrhythmic agents (e.g. ajmaline). Even if more than a half of known 
pharmaceutical molecules possess a salifiable moiety, what can be done for new 
potential drug entity that cannot be improved by transformation into a salt? In 
this context, after a brief review of pharmaceutical salts on the market and the 
implication of amino acids in these formulations, we focus on the advantage of 
using amino acids even when the target compound is not salifiable by exploiting 
their zwitterionic potentialities for cocrystal edification. We summarize here a 
series of new examples coming from literature to support the advantages of 
broadening the application of amino acids in formulation for new drug substances 
improvement research for non-salifiable molecules.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2013.11.045
PMID: 24487190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Eur J Pediatr. 2009 Jul;168(7):851-7. doi: 10.1007/s00431-008-0857-0. Epub 2008 
Oct 29.

Study of the acceptability of antibiotic syrups, suspensions, and oral solutions 
prescribed to pediatric outpatients.

Cohen R(1), de La Rocque F, Lécuyer A, Wollner C, Bodin MJ, Wollner A.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Microbiologie, Hôpital Intercommunal de Créteil, Créteil, 
France. Robert.cohen@wanadoo.fr

This observational study was designed to evaluate the acceptability of oral 
antibiotics (including generics) commonly prescribed to children by community 
practitioners in France. Between February and July 2006, the parents of 953 
children enrolled by 46 pediatricians completed a questionnaire, including a 
taste assessment based on representations of five facial expressions. The 
proportions of "satisfactory" taste judgments showed a significant difference 
between amoxicillin-clavulanate reference product and its generics (77.9% vs. 
65%, p = 0.01). The amoxicillin-clavulanate generics were more likely than the 
reference product to be spat out at least once (28.7% vs. 19%, p = 0.05). The 
full treatment course was taken by 91.7% and 82.3% of children prescribed the 
amoxicillin-clavulanate reference product and its generics, respectively (p = 
0.02). The proportions of "satisfactory" taste judgments showed no significant 
difference between amoxicillin reference product and generics (64.3% vs. 72.5%, 
p = 0.3). The amoxicillin generics were not different from the reference product 
to be spat out at least once (8.6% vs. 14.3%, p = 0.2). The full treatment 
course was taken by 90.7% and 94.6% of children prescribed the amoxicillin 
reference product and its generics, respectively (p = 0.3). This study suggests 
the role of the active substance in the taste, and calls for the evaluation of 
palatability of future drugs (generics and references) before granting of the 
marketing authorization, particularly for active substances of poor taste; this 
palatability plays a significant role in the compliance of the treatment, 
notably in children. Poor compliance increases the risk of therapeutic failures 
and the emergence of resistance.

DOI: 10.1007/s00431-008-0857-0
PMID: 18958497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Br J Oral Maxillofac Surg. 2015 Jan;53(1):18-22. doi: 
10.1016/j.bjoms.2014.09.002. Epub 2014 Sep 29.

Use of metronidazole as part of an empirical antibiotic regimen after incision 
and drainage of infections of the odontogenic spaces.

Bali R(1), Sharma P(1), Gaba S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of OMFS, D.A.V. Dental College and M.M. General Hospital, 
Yamunanagar, Haryana 135001, India.
(2)Department of OMFS, D.A.V. Dental College and M.M. General Hospital, 
Yamunanagar, Haryana 135001, India. Electronic address: 
dr.shivanigaba@gmail.com.

The combination of amoxicillin/clavulanate and metronidazole is a 
widely-accepted empirical regimen for infections of the odontogenic spaces. Once 
adequate drainage has been established micro-organisms are less likely to grow 
and multiply, particularly anaerobes. This may obviate the need for anaerobic 
coverage after drainage in healthy hosts. We studied 60 patients in this 
randomised prospective study, the objective of which was to evaluate 
metronidazole as part of an empirical antibiotic regimen after drainage of 
infections of the odontogenic spaces. Samples of pus were sent for culture and 
testing for sensitivity. Amoxicillin/clavulanate and metronidazole were given to 
all patients. After incision and drainage the patients were randomly allocated 
to two groups. In the first group both antibiotics were continued, and in the 
second metronidazole was withdrawn. The groups were compared both clinically and 
microbiologically. There were no significant differences between the groups in 
the resolution of infection. Thirteen patients (n=6 in the 2-antimicrobial 
group, and n=7 in the amoxicillin/clavulanate group) showed no improvement 
during the 48 h postoperatively. Overall there was need to substitute another 
antibiotic for amoxicillin/clavulanate in only 6 cases. Six patients in the 
amoxicillin/clavulanate group required the addition of metronidazole after 
drainage. We conclude that in healthy subjects metronidazole is not necessary in 
the period after drainage, but its prescription should be based on assessment of 
clinical and laboratory markers of infection.

Copyright © 2014 The British Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeons. 
Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bjoms.2014.09.002
PMID: 25277645 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Middle East J Dig Dis. 2016 Jul;8(3):219-225. doi: 10.15171/mejdd.2016.24.

A Comparison between Hybrid and Concomitant Regimens for Helicobacter Pylori 
Eradication: A Randomized Clinical Trial.

Alhooei S(1), Tirgar Fakheri H(2), Hosseini V(3), Maleki I(3), Taghvaei T(3), 
Valizadeh SM(4), Bari Z(5).

Author information:
(1)Assistant Professor, Department of Gastroenterology, Golestan University of 
Medical Sciences, Gorgan, Iran.
(2)Professor, Department of Gastroenterology, Gut and Liver Research Center, 
Mazandaran University of Medical Sciences, Sari, Iran.
(3)Associate Professor, Department of Gastroenterology, Gut and Liver Research 
Center, Mazandaran University of Medical Sciences, Sari, Iran.
(4)Assistant Professor, Department of Gastroenterology, Gut and Liver Research 
Center, Mazandaran University of Medical Sciences, Sari, Iran.
(5)Fellow of Gastroenterology, Gut and Liver Research Center, Mazandaran 
University of Medical Sciences, Sari, Iran.

BACKGROUND Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) is one of the most common bacterial 
infections worldwide. We designed a study to compare the efficacy of 14-day 
hybrid regimen with 10-day concomitant therapy for H. pylori eradication in 
Iran. METHODS 252 patients with naïve H. pylori infection were randomly divided 
to receive either hybrid regimen (pantoprazole 40 mg, and amoxicillin 1 gr twice 
daily for 14 days, accompanied by clarithromycin 500 mg, and metronidazole 500 
mg, twice daily just during the last 7 days) or concomitant regimen 
(pantoprazole 40 mg, amoxicillin 1 gr, clarithromycin 500 mg, and metronidazole 
500 mg, all twice daily for 10 days). 8 weeks after therapy, 14C- urease breath 
test was performed to confirm eradication. RESULTS According to intention to 
treat analysis, the eradication rates were 87.3% (95% CI: 81.4-93.1) and 80.9% 
(95% CI: 74-87.8) in hybrid and concomitant groups, respectively (p=0.38). 
Per-protocol eradication rates were 89.3% (95% CI: 83.8-94.7) and 83.1% (95% CI: 
76.3-89.8), respectively (p=0.19). The rates of severe side effects were not 
statistically different between the two groups (4% vs. 8.7%). CONCLUSION 14-day 
hybrid therapy can be considered as a nearly acceptable regimen with few severe 
side effects in Iran. However, it seems that the efficacy of this therapy is 
decreasing as the resistance rates to antibiotics are increasing. We suggest 
further studies to assess the efficacy of a more prolonged concomitant therapy 
for H. pylori eradication in Iran.

DOI: 10.15171/mejdd.2016.24
PMCID: PMC5045675
PMID: 27698972


192. BMC Res Notes. 2020 Jan 10;13(1):22. doi: 10.1186/s13104-019-4877-9.

E-test versus agar dilution for antibiotic susceptibility testing of 
Helicobacter pylori: a comparison study.

Miftahussurur M(1)(2), Fauzia KA(3)(4), Nusi IA(5), Setiawan PB(5), Syam AF(6), 
Waskito LA(3)(4), Doohan D(3)(4), Ratnasari N(7), Khomsan A(8), Adnyana IK(9), 
Akada J(4), Yamaoka Y(10)(11)(12)(13).

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroentero-Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty 
of Medicine-Dr. Soetomo Teaching Hospital, Universitas Airlangga, Jalan Mayjend 
Prof. Dr. Moestopo No. 6-8 Surabaya, Surabaya, 60131, Indonesia. 
muhammad-m@fk.unair.ac.id.
(2)Institute of Tropical Disease, Universitas Airlangga, Surabaya, 60115, 
Indonesia. muhammad-m@fk.unair.ac.id.
(3)Institute of Tropical Disease, Universitas Airlangga, Surabaya, 60115, 
Indonesia.
(4)Department of Environmental and Preventive Medicine, Oita University Faculty 
of Medicine, Yufu, Oita, 879-5593, Japan.
(5)Division of Gastroentero-Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty 
of Medicine-Dr. Soetomo Teaching Hospital, Universitas Airlangga, Jalan Mayjend 
Prof. Dr. Moestopo No. 6-8 Surabaya, Surabaya, 60131, Indonesia.
(6)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Indonesia, Jakarta, 10430, Indonesia.
(7)Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of Medicine Gadjah, Mada 
University-Dr. Sardjito, Yogyakarta, 55281, Indonesia.
(8)Department of Community Nutrition, Bogor Agriculture University, Bogor, 
16680, Indonesia.
(9)School of Pharmacy, Bandung Institute of Technology, Bandung, 40132, 
Indonesia.
(10)Division of Gastroentero-Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine, 
Faculty of Medicine-Dr. Soetomo Teaching Hospital, Universitas Airlangga, Jalan 
Mayjend Prof. Dr. Moestopo No. 6-8 Surabaya, Surabaya, 60131, Indonesia. 
yyamaoka@oita-u.ac.jp.
(11)Department of Environmental and Preventive Medicine, Oita University Faculty 
of Medicine, Yufu, Oita, 879-5593, Japan. yyamaoka@oita-u.ac.jp.
(12)Global Oita Medical Advanced Research Center for Health, Oita University, 
Oita, 870-1192, Japan. yyamaoka@oita-u.ac.jp.
(13)Department of Medicine, Gastroenterology and Hepatology Section, Baylor 
College of Medicine, Houston, TX, 77030, USA. yyamaoka@oita-u.ac.jp.

OBJECTIVE: For evaluating the antibiotic resistance of Helicobacter pylori, the 
agar dilution method is the gold standard; however, using this method in daily 
practice is laborious. E-test has been proposed to be an uncomplicated method. 
This study was aimed at validating the E-test and detecting the presence of any 
bias between the agar dilution method and E-test.
RESULTS: The agar dilution method and E-test were performed using five 
antibiotics for 72 strains of H. pylori obtained from clinical patients in 
Indonesia. The E-test's results showed a higher prevalence of resistance to all 
the antibiotics tested but the difference was not significant. Results showed 
high essential agreement (> 90.0%) for all the antibiotics, but only 84.7% for 
metronidazole. The agreement for MIC value was acceptable for levofloxacin, 
clarithromycin, and metronidazole. For amoxicillin, it showed only fair 
agreement (0.25) by the Kappa analysis and significant difference by 
Passing-Bablok regression. Even though some discrepancies were found, the E-test 
has an acceptable agreement for levofloxacin, metronidazole, tetracycline, and 
clarithromycin but further confirmation may be necessary for amoxicillin.

DOI: 10.1186/s13104-019-4877-9
PMCID: PMC6954499
PMID: 31924273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


193. Zhonghua Er Ke Za Zhi. 2012 Aug;50(8):563-7.

[A 10-day sequential therapy for eradication of Helicobacter pylori infection in 
children].

[Article in Chinese]

Huang J(1), Gong ST, Ou WJ, Pan RF, Geng LL, Huang H, He WE, Chen PY, Liu LY, 
Zhou LY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Guangzhou Women and Children's Medical 
Center, Guangzhou, China.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the clinical effect of a 10-day sequential therapy which 
was made up of omeprazole, clarithromycin, amoxicillin-clavulanate and 
metronidazole for the eradication of Helicobacter pylori (Hp) infection in 
children.
METHOD: A total of 214 children with abdominal pain, who were confirmed to have 
Hp infection through endoscopy, biopsy, and Hp culture. The 214 cases were 
randomly divided into four groups. A 10-day sequential therapy group accepted 
omeprazole 0.8 - 1.0 mg/(kg·d) plus amoxicillin-clavulanate 50 mg/(kg·d) for 
five days and omeprazole 0.8 - 1.0 mg/(kg·d), clarithromycin 20 mg/(kg·d) and 
metronidazole 20 mg/(kg·d) for the remaining five days. The 7-day triple therapy 
group, 10-day triple therapy group and 14-day triple therapy group received 
omeprazole 0.8 - 1.0 mg/(kg·d), amoxicillin-clavulanate 50 mg/(kg·d) and 
clarithromycin 20 mg/(kg·d) for 7 days,10 days,14 days, respectively. All drugs 
were given twice daily. All these patients received (13)C urea breath test 
((13)C-UBT) four weeks after the treatment.
RESULT: Finally, 199 patients were followed up, and the total rate of loss to 
follow-up was 7.0% (15/214). Hp eradication rate was 85.2% and 90.2% in the 
10-day sequential therapy group on intention to treat (ITT) and per protocol 
(PP) analyses, 66.0% and 71.4% in the 7-day triple therapy group on ITT and PP 
analyses; 60.0% and 67.3% in 10-day triple therapy group on ITT and PP analyses, 
and 78.8% and 82.0% in patients who received the 10-day sequential regimen on 
ITT and PP analyses, respectively. By ITT analysis, there was significantly 
difference between the 10-day sequential therapy group and 7-day or 10-day 
triple therapy group (P < 0.05), while no significant difference was found 
between the 10-day sequential therapy group and 14-day triple therapy group (P > 
0.05). The results of the ITT analysis and the PP analysis were the same. The 
four groups had neither significant difference in abdominal pain relief (P > 
0.05) nor in incidence of adverse reactions (P > 0.05).
CONCLUSION: The 10-day sequential regimen was significantly more effective than 
both 7-day triple regimen and 10-day triple regimen, while had the same 
eradication rate compared with the 14-day sequential therapy. But 10-day triple 
regimen to eradicate Hp infection in children had the advantages such as short 
course of treatment and better compliance.

PMID: 23158730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Gastroenterology. 2018 Oct;155(4):1109-1119. doi: 10.1053/j.gastro.2018.06.047. 
Epub 2018 Jun 30.

Efficacies of Genotypic Resistance-Guided vs Empirical Therapy for Refractory 
Helicobacter pylori Infection.

Liou JM(1), Chen PY(2), Luo JC(3), Lee JY(4), Chen CC(1), Fang YJ(4), Yang 
TH(4), Chang CY(5), Bair MJ(6), Chen MJ(1), Hsu YC(5), Hsu WF(1), Chang CC(7), 
Lin JT(8), Shun CT(9), El-Omar EM(10), Wu MS(11); Taiwan Gastrointestinal 
Disease and Helicobacter Consortium.

Collaborators: Liou JM, Lee YC, Lin JT, Wu CY, Wu JY, Chen CC, Lin CH, Fang YR, 
Bair MJ, Luo JC, Wu MS, Cheng TY, Tseng PH, Chiu HM, Chang CC, Yu CC, Chiu MC, 
Chen YN, Hu WH, Chou CK, Tai CM, Lee CT, Wang WL, Chang WS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine, 
National Taiwan University Hospital, National Taiwan University College of 
Medicine, Taipei, Taiwan.
(2)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine, 
Chia-Yi Christian Hospital, Chia-Yi, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Medicine, National Yang-Ming University, School of Medicine, 
and Taipei Veterans General Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine, National Taiwan University Hospital, Yun-Lin 
Branch, National Taiwan University College of Medicine, Yun-Lin, Taiwan.
(5)School of Medicine, Fu Jen Catholic University, New Taipei City, Taiwan.
(6)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Internal Medicine, Mackay 
Memorial Hospital, Taitung Branch, Taitung, Taiwan and Mackay Medical College, 
New Taipei City, Taiwan.
(7)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine, 
Taipei Medical University Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan; Department of Internal 
Medicine, School of Medicine, College of Medicine, Taipei Medical University, 
Taipei, Taiwan.
(8)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine, 
National Taiwan University Hospital, National Taiwan University College of 
Medicine, Taipei, Taiwan; School of Medicine, Fu Jen Catholic University, New 
Taipei City, Taiwan.
(9)Department of Pathology, National Taiwan University Hospital, National Taiwan 
University College of Medicine, Taipei, Taiwan.
(10)Microbiome Research Centre, St George and Sutherland Clinical School, 
University of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia.
(11)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Internal 
Medicine, National Taiwan University Hospital, National Taiwan University 
College of Medicine, Taipei, Taiwan. Electronic address: mingshiang@ntu.edu.tw.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2019 Feb 19;170(4):JC19. doi: 10.7326/ACPJ201902190-019.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: We aimed to compare the efficacy of genotypic 
resistance-guided therapy vs empirical therapy for eradication of refractory 
Helicobacter pylori infection in randomized controlled trials.
METHODS: We performed 2 multicenter, open-label trials of patients with H pylori 
infection (20 years or older) failed by 2 or more previous treatment regimens, 
from October 2012 through September 2017 in Taiwan. The patients were randomly 
assigned to groups given genotypic resistance-guided therapy for 14 days (n = 21 
in trial 1, n = 205 in trial 2) or empirical therapy according to medication 
history for 14 days (n = 20 in trial 1, n = 205 in trial 2). Patients received 
sequential therapy containing esomeprazole and amoxicillin for the first 7 days, 
followed by esomeprazole and metronidazole, with levofloxacin, clarithromycin, 
or tetracycline (doxycycline in trial 1, tetracycline in trial 2) for another 7 
days (all given twice daily) based on genotype markers of resistance determined 
from gastric biopsy specimens (group A) or empirical therapy according to 
medication history. Resistance-associated mutations in 23S ribosomal RNA or 
gyrase A were identified by polymerase chain reaction with direct sequencing. 
Eradication status was determined by 13C-urea breath test. The primary outcome 
was eradication rate.
RESULTS: H pylori infection was eradicated in 17 of 21 (81%) patients receiving 
genotype resistance-guided therapy and 12 of 20 (60%) patients receiving 
empirical therapy (P = .181) in trial 1. This trial was terminated ahead of 
schedule due to the low rate of eradication in patients given doxycycline 
sequential therapy (15 of 26 [57.7%]). In trial 2, H pylori infection was 
eradicated in 160 of 205 (78%) patients receiving genotype resistance-guided 
therapy and 148 of 205 (72.2%) patients receiving empirical therapy (P = .170), 
according to intent to treat analysis. The frequencies of adverse effects and 
compliance did not differ significantly between groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Properly designed empirical therapy, based on medication history, 
is an acceptable alternative to genotypic resistance-guided therapy for 
eradication of refractory H pylori infection after consideration of 
accessibility, cost, and patient preference. ClinicalTrials.gov ID: NCT01725906.

Copyright © 2018 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.gastro.2018.06.047
PMID: 29964036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. BMJ Open. 2021 Sep 17;11(9):e046158. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2020-046158.

Impact of pulse oximetry on hospital referral acceptance in children under 5 
with severe pneumonia in rural Pakistan (district Jamshoro): protocol for a 
cluster randomised trial.

Mir F(1), Ali Nathwani A(2), Chanar S(2), Hussain A(2), Rizvi A(2), Ahmed I(2), 
Memon ZA(3), Habib A(2), Soofi S(2), Bhutta ZA(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics & Child Health, Aga Khan University, Karachi, 
Sindh, Pakistan fatima.mir@aku.edu.
(2)Department of Paediatrics & Child Health, Aga Khan University, Karachi, 
Sindh, Pakistan.
(3)Centre of Excellence in Women and Child Health, Aga Khan University, Karachi, 
Sindh, Pakistan.
(4)Division of Women and Child Health, Aga Khan University, Karachi, Pakistan.

BACKGROUND: Pneumonia is a leading cause of death among children under 5 
specifically in South Asia and sub-Saharan Africa. Hypoxaemia is a 
life-threatening complication among children under 5 with pneumonia. Hypoxaemia 
increases risk of mortality by 4.3 times in children with pneumonia than those 
without hypoxaemia. Prevalence of hypoxaemia varies with geography, altitude and 
severity (9%-39% Asia, 3%-10% African countries). In this protocol paper, we 
describe research methods for assessing impact of Lady Health Workers (LHWs) 
identifying hypoxaemia in children with signs of pneumonia during household 
visits on acceptance of hospital referral in district Jamshoro, Sindh.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: A cluster randomised controlled trial using pulse oximetry 
as intervention for children with severe pneumonia will be conducted in 
community settings. Children aged 0-59 months with signs of severe pneumonia 
will be recruited by LHWs during routine visits in both intervention and control 
arms after consent. Severe pneumonia will be defined as fast breathing and/or 
chest in-drawing, and, one or more danger sign and/or hypoxaemia (Sa02 <92%) in 
PO (intervention) group and fast breathing and/or chest in-drawing and one or 
more danger sign in clinical signs (control) group. Recruits in both groups will 
receive a stat dose of oral amoxicillin and referral to designated tertiary 
health facility. Analysis of variance will be used to compare baseline referral 
acceptance in both groups with that at end of study.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Ethical approval was granted by the Ethics Review 
Committee of the Aga Khan University (4722-Ped-ERC-17), Karachi. Study results 
will be shared with relevant government and non-governmental organisations, 
presented at national and international research conferences and published in 
international peer-reviewed scientific journals.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT03588377.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2021. Re-use permitted under CC BY. Published 
by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2020-046158
PMCID: PMC8451312
PMID: 34535473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


196. Acta Paediatr. 2024 Jun;113(6):1203-1208. doi: 10.1111/apa.17240. Epub 2024 Apr 
9.

Antibiotics for the treatment of lower respiratory tract infections in children 
with neurodisability: Systematic review.

Marpole RM(1)(2), Bowen AC(3)(4), Langdon K(5)(6), Wilson AC(7)(8), Gibson 
N(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, University of Western Australia, Perth, Western 
Australia, Australia.
(2)Cerebral Palsy Alliance, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(3)Department of Infectious Diseases, Perth Children's Hospital, Perth, Western 
Australia, Australia.
(4)Wesfarmers Centre for Vaccines and Infectious Diseases, Telethon Kids 
Institute, Perth, Western Australia, Australia.
(5)Telethon Kids Institute, Perth, Western Australia, Australia.
(6)Kid's Rehab WA, Perth Children's Hospital, Perth, Western Australia, 
Australia.
(7)Respiratory and Sleep Medicine, Perth Children's Hospital, Perth, Western 
Australia, Australia.
(8)Wal-yan Respiratory Research Centre, Telethon Kids Institute, Perth, Western 
Australia, Australia.
(9)Physiotherapy department, Perth Children's Hospital, Perth, Western 
Australia, Australia.
(10)Curtin University, Perth, Western Australia, Australia.

AIM: Determine the optimal antibiotic choice for lower respiratory tract 
infection (LRTI) in children with neurodisability.
METHODS: Embase, Ovid Emcare and MEDLINE were searched for studies from 
inception to January 2023. All studies, except case reports, focusing on the 
antibiotic treatment of LRTI in children, with neurodisabilities were included. 
Outcomes included length of stay, intensive care admission and mortality.
RESULTS: Nine studies met the inclusion criteria (5115 patients). All the 
studies were of low quality. The shortest length of stay was with anaerobic and 
gram-positive cover. Five studies used anaerobic, gram-positive and 
gram-negative cover (e.g., amoxicillin-clavulanic acid), which was frequently 
adequate. In one large study, it was better than gram-positive and gram-negative 
cover alone (e.g. ceftriaxone). Those unresponsive or more unwell at 
presentation improved faster on Pseudomonas aeruginosa cover (e.g., 
piperacillin-tazobactam).
CONCLUSION: In this context, anaerobic, gram-positive and gram-negative cover is 
just as effective as P. aeruginosa cover, supporting empiric treatment with 
amoxicillin-clavulanic acid. If there is a failure to improve, broadening to 
include P. aeruginosa could be considered. This is consistent with a consensus 
statement on the treatment of LRTI in children with neurodisability. An accepted 
definition for what constitutes LRTI in this cohort is required before designing 
prospective randomised trials.

© 2024 The Authors. Acta Paediatrica published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on 
behalf of Foundation Acta Paediatrica.

DOI: 10.1111/apa.17240
PMID: 38591640 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Clin Oral Investig. 2015 Jul;19(6):1437-42. doi: 10.1007/s00784-014-1364-5. Epub 
2014 Nov 22.

Comparison of bleaching efficacy of two bleaching agents on teeth discoloured by 
different antibiotic combinations used in revascularization.

Yasa B(1), Arslan H, Akcay M, Kavrik F, Hatirli H, Ozkan B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Restorative Dentistry, Faculty of Dentistry, Izmir Katip Celebi 
University, Izmir, Turkey.

OBJECTIVES: To investigate the whitening effects of different bleaching agents 
on teeth discoloured by different antibiotic combinations of ciprofloxacin and 
metronidazole with minocycline, doxycycline, amoxicillin or cefaclor.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Forty extracted bovine incisors were collected and 
discoloured with triple antibiotic pastes (TAP) with minocycline, doxycycline, 
amoxicillin and cefaclor throughout 30 days. The specimens were then randomly 
divided into two subgroups and each group received different bleaching 
materials: 35% hydrogen peroxide and sodium perborate. Spectrophotometric 
measurements were obtained on the buccal surfaces of the crown, firstly in the 
beginning, then on the 4th, 8th and 12th days after the placement of the 
bleaching materials. The acceptability threshold was set to 3.5. The ∆E values 
were calculated and the data was analysed using the repeated measures analysis 
of variance (P = .05).
RESULTS: All the test groups induced colour changes exceeding the acceptability 
threshold 30 days after the antibiotic pastes were placed. The 35% hydrogen 
peroxide was more effective than sodium perborate in the whitening of 
discoloured teeth by antibiotic pastes (P = .001). The whitening effect after 
the 8th and 12th days was significantly more than after 4 days of treatment (P 
<.001). The discolouration caused by the TAP with minocycline and cefaclor 
showed greater whitening compared to the TAP with doxycycline and amoxicillin 
groups (P <.05).
CONCLUSIONS: The whitening treatment effect of 35% hydrogen peroxide on teeth 
discoloured by antibiotic pastes seems to have significantly outperformed the 
sodium perborate treatment. Both bleaching agents were allowed to bleach the 
teeth gradually each day and the effects on the 8th and 12th days were superior 
to the one on the 4th day.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The use of 35% hydrogen peroxide could be advantageous to 
bleach the teeth discoloured with antibiotic pastes compared to sodium 
perborate.

DOI: 10.1007/s00784-014-1364-5
PMID: 25416638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Am J Gastroenterol. 2006 Jul;101(7):1476-8. doi: 
10.1111/j.1572-0241.2006.00714.x.

Should the presence of polymorphisms of CYP2C19 enzymes influence the choice of 
the proton pump inhibitor for treatment of Helicobacter pylori infection?

van Zanten SV, Thompson K.

Comment on
    Am J Gastroenterol. 2006 Jul;101(7):1467-75. doi: 
10.1111/j.1572-0241.2006.00717.x.

There are variations in the CYP2C19 genotypes, that are important for the 
metabolism of PPIs. Patients who are heterozygotes for the mutation, but 
especially homozygotes, have a much slower metabolism, which will result in more 
profound acid suppression. Studies have been published, that suggest that the 
success rate of anti-Helicobacter therapy is in part related to the CYP2C19 
genotype of the patient. However, it is important to keep in mind that most 
studies that have evaluated this have been carried out in Asia, in particular in 
Japan, where the prevalence of poor metabolizers (PM) is much higher than, for 
example, in Caucasians. The systematic review published in this issue suggests 
that particularly for omeprazole in combination with amoxicillin or amoxicillin 
and clarithromycin the success rate is much lower when compared to other proton 
pump inhibitors (PPIs). However, there was marked heterogeneity when the results 
were pooled in formal meta-analysis. Study quality was suboptimal and other 
factors such as resistance to antibiotics may explain the observed differences 
in success rates. More clinical trial data are needed before we can accept the 
conclusions of this meta-analysis.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1572-0241.2006.00714.x
PMID: 16863548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Int J Pediatr Otorhinolaryngol. 2018 Apr;107:14-20. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijporl.2018.01.011. Epub 2018 Jan 31.

Pediatricians' attitudes in management of acute otitis media and ear pain in 
Turkey.

Büyükcam A(1), Kara A(2), Bedir T(3), Gülhan B(4), Özdemir H(5), Sütçü M(6), 
Düzgöl M(7), Arslan A(8), Tekin T(9), Çelebi S(10), Kukul MG(2), Bayhan Gİ(11), 
Köşker M(12), Karbuz A(13), Çelik M(14), Kocabay Sütçü Z(15), Metin Ö(16), 
Karakaşlılar S(17), Dağlı A(18), Kara SS(19), Albayrak E(20), Kanık S(4), Tezer 
H(3), Parlakay A(4), Çiftci E(5), Somer A(6), Devrim İ(7), Kurugöl Z(8), 
Dinleyici EÇ(9), Atla P(21).

Author information:
(1)Hacettepe University, Pediatric Infection Department, Ankara, Turkey. 
Electronic address: dr.aysebaktir@gmail.com.
(2)Hacettepe University, Pediatric Infection Department, Ankara, Turkey.
(3)Gazi University, Pediatric Infection Department, Ankara, Turkey.
(4)Ankara Hematology Oncology Children's Training and Research Hospital, 
Pediatric Infection Department, Ankara, Turkey.
(5)Ankara University, Pediatric Infection Department, Ankara, Turkey.
(6)İstanbul University, Pediatric Infection Department, İstanbul, Turkey.
(7)Behçet Uz Training and Research Hospital, Pediatric Infection Department, 
İzmir, Turkey.
(8)Ege University, Department of Pediatrics, İzmir, Turkey.
(9)Eskişehir University, Department of Pediatrics, Eskişehir, Turkey.
(10)Uludağ University, Pediatric Infection Department, Bursa, Turkey.
(11)Yüzüncü Yıl University, Pediatric Infection Department, Van, Turkey.
(12)Diyarbakır Children Hospital, Pediatric Infection Department Diyarbakır, 
Turkey.
(13)Okmeydanı Training and Research Hospital, Pediatric Infection Department, 
İstanbul, Turkey.
(14)Keçiöğren Training and Research Hospital, Pediatric Infection Department, 
Ankara, Turkey.
(15)Süleymaniye Maternity and Children Hospital, Department of Pediatrics, 
İstanbul, Turkey.
(16)Konya Training and Research Hospital, Pediatric Infection Department, Konya, 
Turkey.
(17)Bursa Acıbadem Hospital, Department of Pediatrics, Bursa, Turkey.
(18)Ordu University, Department of Pediatrics, Ordu, Turkey.
(19)Erzurum Training and Research Hospital, Pediatric Infection Department, 
Erzurum, Turkey.
(20)Recep Tayip Erdoğan University, Department of Pediatrics, Rize, Turkey.
(21)Kırklareli State Hospital, Department of Pediatrics, Kırklareli, Turkey.

OBJECTIVES: Acute otitis media (AOM) is predominantly a disease of childhood and 
one of the common reasons for prescribing antibiotics. Ear pain is the main 
symptom of AOM, with the result that parents frequently seek immediate medical 
assistance for their children. Antibiotic therapy for AOM does not provide 
symptomatic relief in the first 24 hours, and analgesics are commonly 
recommended for relieving the pain associated with AOM. The aims of the present 
study were to assess pediatricians' attitudes toward AOM and ear pain management 
in Turkey.
METHODS: This multicenter descriptive questionnaire study was conducted in 20 
centers from different geographic locations in Turkey, with 977 pediatricians, 
between June 2015 and December 2016. The questionnaire comprised 20 questions 
focusing on the pediatricians' sociodemographic variables, experiences, and 
treatment related to AOM and ear pain.
RESULTS: Of the pediatricians, 58.2% were residents, 36.5% were specialists, and 
4.3% were lecturers. Most participants were working in a university hospital 
(54.8%) or education and research hospital (32.2%). In general daily practice, 
the AOM diagnosis rates were between 6% and 20% in outpatient clinics, and 52.3% 
of the participants stated the patients complained about ear pain in pediatric 
clinics. The watchful waiting (WW) rate, as opposed to immediate antibiotic 
treatment, was 39.8% for all the pediatricians. The pediatric residents used the 
WW strategy less than the specialists and lecturers did (p = 0.004). The rates 
of the WW strategy were higher in outpatient clinics where AOM was commonly 
diagnosed (p < 0.001). The most common antibiotic prescribed for AOM was 
amoxicillin clavulanate (76.7%). The mean recommended treatment period for AOM 
was 9.3 ± 2.2 days. The choices for systemic ear pain treatment were 
acetaminophen (26.8%), ibuprofen (29.4%), and alternating between ibuprofen and 
acetaminophen (43.9%). Moreover, 34.6% of the participants recommended topical 
agents for otalgia. Topical agents were more commonly recommended by the 
pediatric residents than specialists or lecturers (p < 0.001). Finally, 58.3% of 
pediatricians had experiences of the parents' usage of a variety of herbal and 
folk remedies, such as breast milk or olive oil, for their children's ear pain.
CONCLUSION: Amoxicillin clavulanate was the most frequently prescribed 
antibiotic for AOM. WW was approved by the pediatricians, and having more AOM 
patients was a significant factor in the physicians' choice of WW; nevertheless, 
the WW rate was poor. Implementation of educational intervention strategies will 
help pediatricians in improving their compliance with evidence-based guidelines 
for AOM treatment. Otalgia is taken seriously by parents and pediatricians, and 
otalgia treatment seems to be well accepted in Turkey for providing symptomatic 
relief and enhancing the patients' quality of life.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijporl.2018.01.011
PMID: 29501295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. J Dent Sci. 2016 Dec;11(4):419-426. doi: 10.1016/j.jds.2016.06.006. Epub 2016 
Aug 10.

Reduction of viable bacteria in dentinal tubules treated with a novel medicament 
(Z-Mix).

Tasanarong P(1), Dechatiwongse Na Ayudhya T(2), Techanitiswad T(1), Koontongkaew 
S(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Dentistry, Thammasat University, Rangsit Campus, Pathum Thani, 
Thailand.
(2)Medicinal Herb Research Unit for Asthma, Thammasat University, Rangsit 
Campus, Pathum Thani, Thailand.

BACKGROUND/PURPOSE: The 3Mix-MP formulation (a mixture of metronidazole, 
ciprofloxacin, and minocycline; macrogol and propylene glycol) has been used to 
kill residual bacteria in dentin caries. This study aimed to investigate the 
dentin disinfection and cytotoxicity of a novel zinc oxide (ZnO) based 
medicament, Z-Mix.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Z-Mix was prepared as a prefilled syringe of materials 
containing mainly ZnO, incorporated with amoxicillin, ciprofloxacin, and 
metronidazole (1 g% of each antibiotic). Drug penetration was measured at 
24 hours and 72 hours. Streptococcus mutans, Lactobacillus acidophilus, or 
Enterococcus faecalis were inoculated into dentinal tubules for 30 days and were 
then subjected to Z-Mix or 0.2% chlorhexidine (CHX) for 48 hours. Viable 
bacteria in the dentin were determined using fluorescence staining. Their 
cytotoxicity against human dental pulp cells was assessed using an MTT assay.
RESULTS: Z-Mix obviously diffused into dentinal tubules and the root apex, 
compared to the 3Mix-MP (P < 0.05). Fluorescence staining demonstrated a 
reduction of viable bacteria at 100 μm and 500 μm below infected cavities after 
treatment with Z-mix or CHX for 48 hours. Live and dead bacteria ratios 
indicated that Z-Mix exhibited markedly antimicrobial effects on inoculated 
bacteria in dentin samples (P < 0.05). There was no significant difference in 
the antimicrobial property between Z-Mix and CHX (P > 0.05). An acceptable level 
of cytotoxicity was observed in Z-Mix and its ingredients.
CONCLUSION: Z-Mix, a soft shapeable paste containing a mixture of three 
antibiotics, is successfully. It can penetrate to the root apex and exhibits 
antimicrobial properties.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jds.2016.06.006
PMCID: PMC6395269
PMID: 30895007


201. Helicobacter. 2012 Dec;17(6):478-85. doi: 10.1111/j.1523-5378.2012.00993.x. Epub 
2012 Aug 21.

Levofloxacin-containing triple and sequential therapy or standard sequential 
therapy as the first line treatment for Helicobacter pylori eradication in 
China.

Qian J(1), Ye F, Zhang J, Yang YM, Tu HM, Jiang Q, Shang L, Pan XL, Shi RH, 
Zhang GX.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing 
Medical University, Nanjing, 210029, China.

AIMS: To compare the efficacy and the adverse effects of levofloxacin-containing 
triple therapy, standard sequential therapy, and levofloxacin-containing 
sequential therapy as first-line treatment for Helicobacter pylori eradication.
METHODS: Three hundred and forty-five naive H. pylori-positive patients were 
randomized to receive levofloxacin-containing 7-day triple therapy (Levo triple, 
i.e., esomeprazole, 20 mg, twice daily, amoxicillin, 1 g, twice daily, and 
levofloxacin, 500 mg, once daily for 7 days, n = 114), standard sequential 
therapy (SST-10, 5-day esomeprazole, 20 mg, twice daily and amoxicillin, 1 g, 
twice daily followed by 5-day esomeprazole, 20 mg, twice daily, clarithromycin, 
500 mg, twice daily and tinidazole, 500 mg, twice daily for 5 days, n = 115) or 
levofloxacin-containing sequential therapy (Levo-ST-10, 5-day esomeprazole, 20 
mg, twice daily and amoxicillin, 1 g, twice daily for 5 days followed by 5-day 
esomeprazole, 20 mg, twice daily, levofloxacin, 500 mg, once daily and 
tinidazole, 500 mg, twice daily, n = 116). Eradication was confirmed by a (13) 
C-urea breath test 4 weeks after completion of treatment.
RESULTS: Intention to treat (ITT) eradication rates were 78.1% (95% CI: 69.4, 
85.3%), 78.3% (95% CI: 69.6, 85.4%), and 82.8% (95% CI: 74.6, 89.1%) for Levo 
triple, SST-10, Levo-ST-10, respectively (p = .599). Per protocol (PP) 
eradication rates were 80.9% (95% CI: 72.3, 87.8%), 82.6% (95% CI: 74.1, 89.2%), 
and 86.5% (95% CI: 78.7, 92.2%), respectively, for the three therapies (p = 
.513). Overall, 3.8% experienced mild to moderate adverse events; the rates were 
1.75, 4.35, and 5.17%, respectively, in the three groups (p = .325).
CONCLUSIONS: Standard sequential therapy and 7-day levofloxacin triple therapy 
produced unacceptably therapeutic efficacy in China. Only 
levofloxacin-containing sequential therapy achieved borderline acceptable 
result. None of the regimens tested reliably achieved 90% or greater therapeutic 
efficacy in China.

© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1523-5378.2012.00993.x
PMID: 23067317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Eur Arch Otorhinolaryngol. 2000;257(3):140-8. doi: 10.1007/s004050050211.

Efficacy and safety of cefdinir in the treatment of maxillary sinusitis.

Steurer M(1), Schenk P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, General Hospital of 
Vienna, University of Vienna Medical School, Austria.

Cefdinir is a new, extended-spectrum, orally active, third-generation 
cephalosporin that is resistant to bacterial beta-lactamase production. To 
evaluate efficacy and safety of the antibiotic in maxillary sinusitis, its use 
was compared with amoxicillin/clavulanate (amox/clav), which is a well-accepted 
beta-lactamase-resistant antibiotic. In this investigator-blinded multicenter 
phase III clinical study, 569 patients were randomly assigned to one of three 
treatment regimens: one daily dose of cefdinir 600 mg (OD), cefdinir 300 mg 
every 12 h (BD), and amox/clav 500/125 mg every 8 h. All antibiotics were 
administered orally for 10 days. Maxillary sinusitis was documented by typical 
clinical signs and symptoms and was confirmed by X-ray imaging. Before 
treatment, the genus and species of any pathogens were determined from sinus 
aspirates. Cultures were tested for beta-lactmase production and in vitro 
resistance to cefdinir and amox/clav. The effectiveness of antibiotic treatment 
was evaluated 7-14 days after therapy and whether or not recurrent clinical 
symptoms or persistent infection was determined 21-35 days post-therapy. The 
appearance of any adverse events was classified as associated or not associated 
with the medication of the study. Present findings showed that the in vitro 
susceptibility of pathogens to cefdinir and amox/clav was similar. Cefdinir OD 
or BD was therapeutically as effective as or better than amox/clav, although 
cefdinir BD was not as useful as amox/clav clinically. Cefdinir OD and BD and 
amox/clav were well tolerated. The statistical incidence of adverse events was 
the same among the three treatment groups, although cefdinir OD treatment had 
significantly fewer treatment discontinuations due to adverse events than BD and 
amox/clav.

DOI: 10.1007/s004050050211
PMID: 10839487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Am J Health Syst Pharm. 2007 Apr 1;64(7):717-22. doi: 10.2146/ajhp060396.

Safe and effective outpatient treatment of adults with chemotherapy-induced 
neutropenic fever.

Moores KG(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Drug Information Service, College of Pharmacy, University of 
Iowa, 100 Oakdale Campus, N330OH, Iowa City, IA 52242-5000, USA. 
kevin-moores@uiowa.edu

PURPOSE: The safe and effective outpatient treatment of adults with 
chemotherapy- induced neutropenic fever is reviewed.
SUMMARY: Chemotherapy-induced neutropenic fever is a potentially 
life-threatening circumstance in high-risk patients. The standard of care for 
neutropenic fever is inpatient treatment with i.v. broad-spectrum antibiotics. 
Within the past 5-10 years, there has been growing interest in oral therapy and 
outpatient treatment for carefully selected low-risk patients. Outpatient 
treatment has the potential to avoid patient exposure to multidrug-resistant 
organisms found in the hospital, provide a more comfortable environment for the 
patient and his or her family, and achieve significant cost savings. Two 
risk-assessment tools have been developed to identify patients with a low risk 
of developing complications from neutropenic fever. A limited number of clinical 
trials have been conducted to evaluate outpatient treatment of low-risk 
patients. The evidence from well-designed randomized controlled trials comparing 
the safety and efficacy of outpatient therapy with standard therapy is not 
extensive. However, some centers have reported successful outpatient therapy in 
low-risk patients with febrile neutropenia. The greatest amount of evidence for 
outpatient treatment of neutropenic fever is available for the combination 
regimen of ciprofloxacin plus amoxicillin-clavulanate. Clinical practice 
guidelines are available to guide patient evaluation, antibiotic selection, 
monitoring, and follow-up.
CONCLUSION: The accepted standard for treatment of neutropenic fever remains 
inpatient therapy with i.v. broad-spectrum antibiotics. However, some centers 
have had success treating selected low-risk patients with neutropenic fever as 
outpatients.

DOI: 10.2146/ajhp060396
PMID: 17384356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Toxics. 2024 Feb 24;12(3):174. doi: 10.3390/toxics12030174.

Antibiotic Residues in UK Foods: Exploring the Exposure Pathways and Associated 
Health Risks.

Seo J(1), Kloprogge F(2), Smith AM(3), Karu K(4), Ciric L(1).

Author information:
(1)Healthy Infrastructure Research Group, Department of Civil, Environmental and 
Geomatic Engineering, University College London, Gower Street, London WC1E 6BT, 
UK.
(2)Institute for Global Health, University College London, Rowland Hill Street, 
London NW3 2PF, UK.
(3)Eastman Dental Institute, University College London, Rowland Hill Street, 
London NW3 2PF, UK.
(4)Department of Chemistry, University College London, 20 Gordon Street, London 
WC1H 0AJ, UK.

While the use of antibiotics has been reported as extensive in the rearing of 
agricultural animals, insufficient information is available on the antibiotic 
residues in animal products and the adverse impact that consistent low-level 
exposure to antibiotics might have on the human body and its microbiome. The aim 
of this study was to estimate the antibiotic concentrations that humans are 
exposed to via their diet using the concentration of antibiotics in animal food 
products and water and an online survey on dietary intake. A total of 131 
participants completed the dietary intake survey, with the majority belonging to 
the omnivorous diet group (76.3%). Distinct dietary trends were observed in the 
omnivorous and unknown groups eating animal products, with specific food types 
dominating each meal: pork (e.g., ham) and dairy products (e.g., milk, yoghurt) 
during breakfast, beef (e.g., burgers) and chicken (e.g., chicken breast) 
products during lunch, and fish (e.g., salmon fillet) during dinner. In total, 
34 different animal-based food and drink products were tested for the presence 
of ten different antibiotics. Of all the products tested, over 35% exceeded the 
acceptable daily antibiotic intake for amoxicillin, ampicillin, and 
enrofloxacin.

DOI: 10.3390/toxics12030174
PMCID: PMC10975662
PMID: 38535907

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


205. Arch Pediatr. 2011 May;18(5):611-6. doi: 10.1016/j.arcped.2011.02.010. Epub 2011 
Mar 21.

[Acceptability, compliance and schedule of administration of oral antibiotics in 
outpatient children].

[Article in French]

Wollner A(1), Lécuyer A(2), De La Rocque F(2), Sedletzki G(3), Derkx V(4), 
Boucherat M(5), Elbez A(6), Gelbert-Baudino N(7), Levy C(2), Corrard F(8), Cohen 
R(9).

Author information:
(1)20-22, boulevard Galliéni, 94130 Nogent-sur-marne, France; Activ, 27, rue 
d'Inkermann, 94100 Saint-Maur-Des-Fosses, France.
(2)Activ, 27, rue d'Inkermann, 94100 Saint-Maur-Des-Fosses, France.
(3)87, boulevard de Port-Royal, 75013 Paris, France.
(4)Activ, 27, rue d'Inkermann, 94100 Saint-Maur-Des-Fosses, France; 154, avenue 
du Général-de-Gaulle, 94500 Champigny-sur-marne, France.
(5)Activ, 27, rue d'Inkermann, 94100 Saint-Maur-Des-Fosses, France; 7, avenue 
des Arts, 94100 Saint-Maur-Des-Fosses, France.
(6)Activ, 27, rue d'Inkermann, 94100 Saint-Maur-Des-Fosses, France; 157, avenue 
du Général-Leclerc, 94700 Maisons-Alfort, France.
(7)AFPA.
(8)Activ, 27, rue d'Inkermann, 94100 Saint-Maur-Des-Fosses, France; 14, avenue 
de Quincy, Combs-la-ville, France.
(9)Activ, 27, rue d'Inkermann, 94100 Saint-Maur-Des-Fosses, France; Centre 
hospitalier intercommunal de Créteil, 40, avenue de Verdun, 94000 Créteil, 
France.

BACKGROUND: Compliance with antibiotics is essential to ensure treatment 
efficacy and to prevent the emergence of bacterial resistant stains. In children 
who take oral form, the palatability and the frequency of administration seem to 
be factors important to good compliance.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: This observational study was designed to assess the 
acceptability of oral antibiotics (including generics) commonly prescribed to 
children by primary care physicians in France. It was given to 50 pediatricians 
and 50 GPs in private practice. For each patient, the physician and parents 
completed a questionnaire, and parents filled out a log for each drug intake.
RESULTS: Between September 2006 and September 2007, 91 physicians enrolled 2400 
children and 1482 patient records are fully assessable. The two factors that 
improve significantly compliance are administration in two doses by day (OR 2.2 
[95% CI 1 6-3]) and acceptability ≥80% (OR 2.6, [95% CI 1.9-3.7]). The 
acceptability was better for amoxicillin-clavulanic acid 65.4% (95% CI [57.6 to 
72.4]) than for cefpodoxime 47.1% (95% CI [43.8-50.4]) or cefuroxime axetil 26% 
(95% [CI 15.9-39.6]). Conversely, cefpodoxime proxetil obtained a better score 
for compliance 91.8% (95% CI [89.8 to 93.4) as amoxicillin-clavulanic acid 84.6% 
(95%CI 80.8 to 87.8) because of its mode of administration in two doses per day. 
There is no difference between the amoxicillin clavulanic acid reference product 
and its generics as a whole, however a large variability exists between 
generics. If, for antibiotics prescribed in two doses per day, the two 
administrations by day are roughly equidistant, it is not the same for those 
prescribed three times a day: indeed, while the doses taken are identical, only 
four hours separate the first intake of the morning from the second intake in 
mid-day and more than 12 hours between the evening dose from the next morning 
intake.
CONCLUSIONS: This study confirms the disparity in terms of acceptability among 
the different antibiotics prescribed for children even for the same drug, 
warranting evaluation for marketing of future generic drugs pediatric oral 
suspension. The disparity ranges for drugs three times daily asking consequences 
pharmacokinetics and dosage adjustment for a transition to two doses per day.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arcped.2011.02.010
PMID: 21420838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. EXCLI J. 2013 May 7;12:384-95. eCollection 2013.

Irrational antibiotic prescribing: a local issue or global concern?

Hashemi S(1), Nasrollah A(1), Rajabi M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, Islamic Azad University Pharmaceutical 
Sciences Branch, Tehran, Iran.

Resistance to antibiotics is a major public-health concern and antibiotic use is 
being ever more recognized as the main discriminatory pressure driving this 
resistance. The aim was to assess the outpatient usage of antibiotics in 
teaching hospitals in various parts of capital city of Iran, Tehran and its 
association with resistance. 600 outpatient antibiotic prescriptions between 
December 2011 and May 2012 were reviewed in our teaching hospitals. All 
prescriptions were scrutinized in order to evaluate the antibiotic prescribing. 
The medical doctors from all grades were asked to note the chief complaints and 
the most possible diagnosis on each prescription. Clinical data, patient 
demographic and ultimately the total quantities of antibiotics were recorded. 
Our data was then compared against the major antibiotic guidelines and similar 
studies in other countries. The most common prescribed antibiotics are 
Penicillins (Penicillin, Co-Amoxiclav and Amoxicillin) (40 %), Cephalosporins 
(Cefixime, Cephalexin and Ceftriaxone) (24.5 %) and Macrolides (particularly 
Azithromycin) (15.3 %). In total, 18.2 % of cases were combinational 
antibacterial therapies (≥ 2). The most common diagnosis was upper respiratory 
tract infections as common cold (29.2 %) and sore throat (11.8 %). Directions 
(instructions for use) of 58 % of selected antibiotics were acceptable. 
Parenteral administration remains the common route of administration with 22 % 
of all reviewed prescriptions. Based on Cochrane reviews the antibiotic 
prescribing was unjustified in 42.7 % of the cases. The prescribing habit, 
correct diagnosis and the use of antibiotics need instant consideration. These 
data can provide useful information for assessing public-health policy that aims 
to reduce the antibiotic use and resistance levels.

PMCID: PMC4659337
PMID: 26622211


207. Infect Drug Resist. 2021 Mar 25;14:1239-1246. doi: 10.2147/IDR.S304711. 
eCollection 2021.

Eradication Rates for Esomeprazole and Lansoprazole-Based 7-Day Non-Bismuth 
Concomitant Quadruple Therapy for First-Line Anti-Helicobacter pylori Treatment 
in Real World Clinical Practice.

Hung KT(1), Yang SC(1), Wu CK(1)(2), Wang HM(1), Yao CC(1), Liang CM(1)(2), Tai 
WC(1)(2), Wu KL(1)(2), Kuo YH(1)(2), Lee CH(2)(3), Chuah SK(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Hepatogastroenterology, Department of Internal Medicine, Chang 
Gung Memorial Hospital, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
(2)Chang Gung University, College of Medicine, Taoyuan, Taiwan.
(3)Division of Infectious Disease, Department of Internal Medicine, Chang Gung 
Memorial Hospital, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.

PURPOSE: Non-bismuth concomitant quadruple therapy is commonly administered in 
Taiwan, achieving an acceptable efficacy as a first-line anti-Helicobacter 
pylori treatment. This study compared the eradication rates between 
esomeprazole- and lansoprazole-based non-bismuth concomitant quadruple therapy 
for first-line anti-H. pylori treatment.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: This study included 206 H. pylori-infected naïve patients 
between July 2016 and February 2019. The patients were prescribed with either a 
7-day non-bismuth containing quadruple therapy (esomeprazole, 40 mg twice daily; 
amoxicillin, 1 g twice daily; and metronidazole, 500 mg twice daily; and 
clarithromycin, 500 mg twice daily for 7 days [EACM group]; lansoprazole, 30 mg 
twice daily; amoxicillin, 1 g twice daily; metronidazole, 500 mg twice daily; 
and clarithromycin, 500 mg twice daily [LACM group]). Then, the patients were 
asked to perform urea breath tests 8 weeks later.
RESULTS: The eradication rates in the EACM group were 86.1% (95% confidence 
interval [CI], 77.8%-92.2%) and 90.6% (95% CI, 82.9%-95.6%) in the 
intention-to-treat (ITT) and the per-protocol (PP) analyses, respectively. 
Moreover, the eradication rates in the LACM group were 90.1% (95% CI, 
82.6%-95.2%) and 92.6% (95% CI, 85.5%-96.9%) in the ITT and the PP analyses, 
respectively. Consequently, the LACM group exhibited more diarrhea patients than 
the EACM group (7.1% versus 1.0%, p = 0.029), but all symptoms were mild. 
Univariate analysis in this study showed that metronidazole-resistant strains 
were the clinical factor affecting the eradications (95.3% versus 78.9%, p = 
0.044). Moreover, a trend was observed in dual clarithromycin- and 
metronidazole-resistant strains (91.5% versus 66.7%, p = 0.155).
CONCLUSION: The eradication rates between esomeprazole and lansoprazole-based 
non-bismuth concomitant quadruple therapy for first-line H. pylori treatment 
were similar in this study. Both could achieve a > 90% report card in the PP 
analysis.

© 2021 Hung et al.

DOI: 10.2147/IDR.S304711
PMCID: PMC8007608
PMID: 33790594

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest 
exist in this work.


208. Farm Hosp. 2012 Nov-Dec;36(6):483-91. doi: 10.7399/FH.2012.36.6.44.

[Pharmaceutical care in renal insufficiency inpatients].

[Article in Spanish]

Devesa García C, Matoses Chirivella C, Peral Ballester L, Sanz Tamargo G, Murcia 
López AC, Navarro Ruiz A.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: To asses the outcomes of posological adjust program in 
renal impairment inpatients, describe the drugs more usually involved, and 
determine the degree of acceptance of the pharmaceutical intervention made.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: A fifteen months-prospective study, in renal insufficiency 
inpatients (serum creatinine > 1,4 mg/dL) treated with drugs that needs 
posological adjustment. The primary outcome was the ratio of adequate dosage of 
the treatment, according with the glomerular filtration rate. We also evaluated 
the global acceptation rate, the drugs inadequate prescribed more frequently, 
phamacokinetic analysis derived from the pharmaceutical intervention and its 
educative character.
RESULTS: 384 patients were identified, and 341 of them presented a glomerular 
filtration rate between 10-50 ml/min. 2.807 prescribed drugs were reviewed, and 
2.052 of them didn%#39;t require posological adjustment in renal insufficiency, 
508 prescribed drugs were correctly adjusted. 247 pres - criptions were 
susceptible of posological adjustment and 164 of them, needed a concrete 
posological adjustment. We performed 200 posological recommendations, and 131 
were accepted. The drugs with a higher number of interventions were enoxaparine, 
levofloxacin, amoxicillin-clavulanic and digoxin.
CONCLUSIONS: The implementation of the pharmaceutical care program was accepted 
between physicians, being antibiotics the group more susceptible of doing a 
posological adjustment in most patients with renal impairment.

Copyright © 2012 SEFH. Published by AULA MEDICA. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.7399/FH.2012.36.6.44
PMID: 23461441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. J Chromatogr A. 2013 Jan 11;1272:41-9. doi: 10.1016/j.chroma.2012.11.056. Epub 
2012 Nov 29.

A new approach for antibiotic drugs determination in human plasma by liquid 
chromatography-mass spectrometry.

Szultka M(1), Krzeminski R, Szeliga J, Jackowski M, Buszewski B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Chemistry and Bioanalytics, Faculty of Chemistry, 
Nicolaus Copernicus University, Gagarin 7 Street, PL-87-100 Torun, Poland.

Sensitive and selective analytical procedures based on high performance liquid 
chromatography with mass spectrometric detection were developed for the 
determination of linezolid (LIN) and amoxicillin (AMOX) in human plasma samples. 
Samples were prepared by applying protein precipitation (PP), solid phase 
extraction (SPE), and microextraction in packed syringe (MEPS). The analytical 
separation was carried out using reversed phase liquid chromatography in 
isocratic mode. All analytes were monitored by mass spectrometry (MS) detection 
in the product ion mode and the method was validated covering the corresponding 
therapeutic range of 1-30 μg/mL and 1-50 μg/mL for LIN and AMOX respectively. 
The assay was linear over AMOX and LIN concentration ranges. The method provided 
good validation data: accuracy (102.9% (LIN), 100.9% (AMOX)), limit of detection 
(0.1407 ng/mL (LIN); 0.1341 ng/mL (AMOX); quantification (0.3814 ng/mL (LIN), 
0.4249 ng/mL (AMOX)) and acceptable stability within 24h in the auto-sampler. 
Three different methods were compared as regards precision, accuracy, recovery 
and matrix effects. The proposed methods offer a fast and simple way to 
determine selected antibiotic drugs in human plasma that could be applied in 
pharmacokinetic studies.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chroma.2012.11.056
PMID: 23261289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Helicobacter. 2012 Feb;17(1):43-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1523-5378.2011.00896.x.

A comparison between sequential therapy and a modified bismuth-based quadruple 
therapy for Helicobacter pylori eradication in Iran: a randomized clinical 
trial.

Fakheri H(1), Taghvaei T, Hosseini V, Bari Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Mazandaran University of Medical Sciences, 
Sari, Mazandaran, Iran. fakher42@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: Sequential regimens have been recently reported to be superior to 
the standard triple therapies in Helicobacter pylori eradication, but most of 
these studies were performed in Europe and data from developing countries are 
lacking. So we designed a study to compare a sequential regimen with a 
bismuth-based quadruple therapy that contains a short course of furazolidone, in 
Iran.
METHODS: Two hundred and ninety-six patients with duodenal ulcer and naïve H. 
pylori infection were randomized into two groups: 148 patients received (PAB-F) 
pantoprazole (40mg-bid), amoxicillin (1g-bid), and bismuth subcitrate 
(240mg-bid) for 2weeks and furazolidone (200mg-bid) just during the first week. 
And 148 patients received (PA-CT) pantoprazole (40mg-bid) for 10days, 
amoxicillin (1g-bid) for the first 5days, and clarithromycin (500mg-bid) plus 
tinidazole (500mg-bid) just during the second 5days. C(14) -urea breath test was 
performed 8weeks after the treatment.
RESULTS: Two hundred and sixty-one patients completed the study (137 patients in 
the PA-CT and 124 in the PAB-F group). The results were not statistically 
different between the two groups in the eradication rates and the severity of 
side effects. The intention to treat eradication rate was 80.4% in the PAB-F 
group and 83.7% in the PA-CT group. Per-protocol eradication rates were 88.7% 
and 89.1%, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Because the two regimens showed acceptable and similar abilities in 
H. pylori eradication and because of much higher cost of clarithromycin in Iran, 
the furazolidone containing regimen seems to be superior. Further modifications 
of sequential therapies are needed to make them ideal regimens in developing 
countries.

© 2011 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1523-5378.2011.00896.x
PMID: 22221615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Front Med (Lausanne). 2022 Feb 22;9:779205. doi: 10.3389/fmed.2022.779205. 
eCollection 2022.

A Randomized Placebo-Controlled Trial of Combination Therapy With 
Post-triple-antibiotic-therapy Fecal Microbiota Transplantation and Alginate for 
Ulcerative Colitis: Protocol.

Ishikawa D(1)(2), Zhang X(1), Nomura K(1), Seki N(3), Haraikawa M(1), Haga K(1), 
Shibuya T(1), Kim YG(3), Nagahara A(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Juntendo University School of Medicine, 
Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Department of Intestinal Microbiota Therapy, Juntendo University School of 
Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Research Center for Drug Discovery, Faculty of Pharmacy, Graduate School of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Keio University, Tokyo, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) has been widely performed for 
ulcerative colitis (UC) treatment at the clinical trial stage. Previous reports 
have used multiple FMT methods to enhance the colonization of healthy donor 
microbiota in the recipient's intestines. FMT following triple antibiotic 
therapy with amoxicillin, fosfomycin, and metronidazole (A-FMT) is not only 
effective but also requires only one FMT, which improves dysbiosis caused by 
reduced Bacteroidetes diversity in patients with UC. Alginate and its 
derivatives have the potential to induce the growth of intestinal bacteria 
including Bacteroides members and produce short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), which 
are beneficial in regulating overactive autoimmunity. Our trial aims to 
investigate whether post-intervention with alginate, which can improve the 
intestinal environment, will enhance the therapeutic effect of A-FMT in UC and 
increase the long-term remission rate.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: This trial is a double-blinded, randomized, 
placebo-controlled, parallel assignment trial. Patients with UC and fecal 
donation candidates will undergo strict screening before being involved in the 
trial. Eligible patients are randomly divided into two groups: one group will 
drink one bottle of alginate twice a day for 8 consecutive weeks after A-FMT, 
while the other group will take a placebo instead of the alginate drink. The 
primary endpoints are the changes in the Total Mayo Score at 8 weeks after study 
initiation and A-FMT from baseline. The secondary endpoint is the comparison of 
clinical features, microbiota, and metabolomic analysis before and after 8 weeks 
of study food intake. Changes at 6, 12, 18, and 24 months after A-FMT will be 
assessed. Finally, a subpopulation analysis of the relationship between patients 
and donors is an exploratory endpoint.
DISCUSSION: The FMT post-treatment used in this study is an oral alginate drink 
that is easily accepted by patients. If the regimen achieves the desired 
results, it can further improve the A-FMT regimen and provide evidence for 
clinical practice guidelines for UC.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: 
https://jrct.niph.go.jp/latest-detail/jRCTs031200103, identifier: 
jRCTs031200103.

Copyright © 2022 Ishikawa, Zhang, Nomura, Seki, Haraikawa, Haga, Shibuya, Kim 
and Nagahara.

DOI: 10.3389/fmed.2022.779205
PMCID: PMC8902497
PMID: 35273972

Conflict of interest statement: Kaigen Pharma Co., Ltd (Osaka, Japan) provided 
the alginate drink and placebo for this clinical study. The authors declare that 
the research was conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial 
relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of interest. The 
reviewer TO declared a shared affiliation with several of the authors, DI, XZ, 
KN, MH, KH, TS, and AN, to the handling editor at time of review.


212. Br J Anaesth. 2019 Jul;123(1):e110-e116. doi: 10.1016/j.bja.2018.09.009. Epub 
2018 Oct 19.

Penicillin allergy de-labelling ahead of elective surgery: feasibility and 
barriers.

Savic L(1), Gurr L(2), Kaura V(3), Toolan J(4), Sandoe JAT(5), Hopkins PM(6), 
Savic S(7).

Author information:
(1)Anaesthetic Department, Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust, Leeds, UK. 
Electronic address: louise.savic@nhs.net.
(2)University of Leeds School of Medicine, Leeds, UK.
(3)Leeds Institute of Biomedical and Clinical Sciences, Leeds, UK.
(4)Department of Clinical Immunology and Allergy, Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS 
Trust, Leeds, UK.
(5)University of Leeds School of Medicine, Leeds, UK; Microbiology Department, 
Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust, Leeds, UK.
(6)Anaesthetic Department, Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust, Leeds, UK; Leeds 
Institute of Biomedical and Clinical Sciences, Leeds, UK.
(7)University of Leeds School of Medicine, Leeds, UK; Department of Clinical 
Immunology and Allergy, Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust, Leeds, UK.

BACKGROUND: Around 10-15% of the in-patient population carry unsubstantiated 
'penicillin allergy' labels, the majority incorrect when tested. These labels 
are associated with harm from use of broad-spectrum non-penicillin antibiotics. 
Current testing guidelines incorporate both skin and challenge tests; this is 
prohibitively expensive and time-consuming to deliver on a large scale. We aimed 
to establish the feasibility of a rapid access de-labelling pathway for surgical 
patients, using direct oral challenge.
METHODS: 'Penicillin allergic' patients, recruited from a surgical 
pre-assessment clinic, were risk-stratified using a screening questionnaire. 
Patients at low risk of true, immunoglobulin E (IgE)-mediated allergy were 
offered direct oral challenge using incremental amoxicillin to a total dose of 
500 mg. A 3-day course was completed at home. De-labelled patients were followed 
up to determine antibiotic use in surgery, and attitudes towards de-labelling 
were explored.
RESULTS: Of 219 patients screened, 74 were eligible for inclusion and offered 
testing. We subsequently tested 56 patients; 55 were de-labelled. None had a 
serious reaction to the supervised challenge, or thereafter. On follow-up, 17 of 
19 patients received appropriate antimicrobial prophylaxis during surgery. Only 
three of 33 de-labelled patients would have been happy for the label to be 
removed without prior specialist testing.
CONCLUSION: Rapid access de-labelling, using direct oral challenge in 
appropriately risk-stratified patients, can be incorporated into the existing 
surgical care pathway. This provides immediate and potential long-term benefit 
for patients. Interest in testing is high among patients, and clinicians appear 
to follow clinic recommendations. Patients are unlikely to accept removal of 
their allergy label on the basis of history alone.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov: AN17/92982.

Copyright © 2018 British Journal of Anaesthesia. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bja.2018.09.009
PMID: 30915983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2004 Jan 1;19(1):89-93. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-2036.2003.01822.x.

Low-dose furazolidone in triple and quadruple regimens for Helicobacter pylori 
eradication.

Fakheri H(1), Merat S, Hosseini V, Malekzadeh R.

Author information:
(1)Digestive Disease Research Center, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Furazolidone-based regimens for the eradication of Helicobacter 
pylori are low cost and effective. Unfortunately, the usual dose of furazolidone 
is not tolerable in many patients. Lower doses of furazolidone are expected to 
cause fewer adverse effects.
AIM: To investigate the efficacy of low-dose furazolidone in the eradication of 
H. pylori.
METHODS: One hundred and fifty patients with duodenal ulcer and H. pylori 
infection were randomly assigned to one of three treatment groups: omeprazole 20 
mg b.d., amoxicillin 1000 mg b.d. and furazolidone 100 mg b.d. for 14 days 
(OAF); omeprazole 20 mg b.d., amoxicillin 1000 mg b.d., furazolidone 100 mg b.d. 
and bismuth subcitrate 240 mg b.d. for 14 days (OABF1); or omeprazole 20 mg 
b.d., amoxicillin 1000 mg b.d., furazolidone 200 mg b.d. and bismuth subcitrate 
240 mg b.d. for 14 days (OABF2).
RESULTS: Of the 150 patients, 145 completed treatment. The intention-to-treat 
and per protocol eradication rates were 54% (27/50), 72% (36/50) and 92% (46/50) 
for the OAF, OABF1 and OABF2 groups, respectively. The OAF and OABF1 groups 
showed significantly lower eradication rates than the OABF2 group (P<0.001 and 
P<0.01, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Triple and quadruple furazolidone-based H. pylori eradication 
regimens do not yield acceptable success rates when a low dose of furazolidone 
(100 mg b.d.) is used.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2036.2003.01822.x
PMID: 14687170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. PLoS One. 2020 Aug 24;15(8):e0236355. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0236355. 
eCollection 2020.

Feasibility of implementation of simplified management of young infants with 
possible serious bacterial infection when referral is not feasible in tribal 
areas of Pune district, Maharashtra, India.

Roy S(1), Patil R(1), Apte A(1), Thibe K(1), Dhongade A(1), Pawar B(2), Nisar 
YB(3), Aboubaker S(4), Qazi SA(4), Bahl R(3), Patil A(5), Juvekar S(1), Bavdekar 
A(1).

Author information:
(1)Vadu Rural Health Program, KEM Hospital Research Centre, Pune, Maharashtra, 
India.
(2)Health Department, Zilla Parishad, Pune District, Govt of Maharashtra, India.
(3)Department of Maternal, Newborn, Child and Adolescent Health and Ageing, 
World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland.
(4)Department of Maternal, Newborn, Child and Adolescent Health, World Health 
Organization, Geneva (Retired), Switzerland.
(5)State Family Welfare Bureau, Pune, Govt of Maharashtra, India.

INTRODUCTION: Neonatal infections are a common cause of death in India, but many 
families cannot access appropriate hospitals for its treatment due to various 
reasons. We implemented the World Health Organization PSBI management guideline 
when referral is not feasible within the public health system in Pune, India to 
evaluate feasibility, barriers and facilitators for its implementation.
METHODS: A national-level consultative meeting between government officials and 
study partners resulted in a consensus on adaptation and implementation in four 
demonstration sites in selected states in India. At the state and district 
levels, similar meetings to plan the implementation strategy and roles were held 
between KEM Hospital Research Centre (KEMHRC) Pune and the public health system 
Pune, Maharashtra. The public health system was responsible for implementation 
of the intervention at eight tribal primary health centres (PHC) in Pune 
district, India, including delivering the intervention and ensuring supplies of 
all commodities while KEMHRC was responsible for technical support including 
training of health workers, assistance in PSBI identification and management, 
data collection and documentation of the implementation strategy.
RESULTS: A total of 175 young infants with PSBI were identified and managed. Of 
these, 34 had critical illness (CI), 46 had clinical severe infection (CSI) and 
10 were infants aged 0-6 days with fast breathing (FB) while 85 infants aged 
7-59 days had fast breathing. Assuming a 10% incidence of PSBI among all live 
births, with 3071 live births recorded, the actual incidence of PSBI found in 
the study was 5.7%, resulting in an actual coverage was of 57%. Among the 90 
infants with CI, CSI and FB in 0-6 days, who were advised referral to government 
tertiary care centre as per the PSBI guideline algorithm, 81 (90%) accepted 
referral while 9 (10%) refused and were offered treatment at primary health 
centres (PHC) with a seven-day course of injectable gentamicin and oral 
amoxicillin. All infants with FB in 7-59 days were offered treatment at PHCs as 
per the PSBI guideline algorithm with a seven-day course of oral amoxicillin. 
All except six infants who died and one with FB in 7-59 days, who was lost to 
follow-up, were successfully cured. Of the six who died, five had CSI and one 
had CI. Among the 81 infants with CI, CSI and FB in 0-6 days who accepted 
referral; 48(53%) were successfully referred to government tertiary facility 
while 33 (36.6%) preferred to visit a private tertiary health facility. The 
implementation strategy demonstrated a relatively high fidelity, acceptance and 
intervention penetration. Lack of training and confidence of the public health 
staff were major challenges faced, which were resolved to a large extent through 
supportive supervision and re-trainings.
CONCLUSION: Management of PSBI is feasible to implement in out-patient 
facilities in the public health system, but technical support to the health 
system is required to jump-start the process. Fast breathing in 7-59 days old 
infants can be managed with oral amoxicillin without referral. A sustainable 
adoption of this intervention by the health system can lead to decrease in 
neonatal mortality and morbidity.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0236355
PMCID: PMC7446882
PMID: 32833993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


215. Obstet Gynecol. 1990 May;75(5):752-6.

Amoxicillin therapy for Chlamydia trachomatis in pregnancy.

Crombleholme WR(1), Schachter J, Grossman M, Landers DV, Sweet RL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics, Gynecology, and Reproductive Sciences, University 
of California, San Francisco.

Comment in
    Obstet Gynecol. 1990 Nov;76(5 Pt 1):896-7.

For treating Chlamydia trachomatis cervical infection in pregnancy, the Centers 
for Disease Control guidelines recommend either erythromycin base or 
erythromycin ethylsuccinate. There is no alternate therapy. Because of 
compliance problems with erythromycin regimens due to gastrointestinal side 
effects, such an alternative is needed. For this reason, we compared, in an open 
trial, the efficacy and patient compliance of amoxicillin (500 mg three times a 
day for 7 days) with those of erythromycin base (500 mg four times a day for 7 
days) in treating C trachomatis cervical infections during pregnancy. In the 
amoxicillin group, 63 of 64 women (98.4%) had negative cervical cultures after 
treatment, compared with 55 of 58 women (94.8%) treated with erythromycin base. 
Vertical transmission to the infants was assessed by culture and/or persistent 
or rising immunoglobulin G antichlamydial antibody. In the amoxicillin group, 37 
of 39 infants (94.9%) had no evidence of chlamydial infection, compared with 32 
of 36 infants (88.8%) in the erythromycin group. These differences were not 
significant. The frequency of side effects was higher with erythromycin base 
than with amoxicillin (15 versus 8%), although not significantly so. However, 
the frequency of stopping medication because of side effects was significantly 
higher with erythromycin base than with amoxicillin (13 versus 2%; P less than 
.006). These results suggest that amoxicillin may be an acceptable alternative 
treatment for chlamydial infections in pregnancy.

PMID: 2325959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Turk J Gastroenterol. 2010 Sep;21(3):212-7. doi: 10.4318/tjg.2010.0090.

Efficacy of probiotics in Helicobacter pylori eradication therapy.

Yaşar B(1), Abut E, Kayadıbı H, Toros B, Sezıklı M, Akkan Z, Keskın Ö, Övünç 
Kurdaş O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterohepatology, Haydarpasa Numune Training and Research 
Hospital, İstanbul. drbyasar@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Triple therapy with a proton pump inhibitor, amoxicillin and 
clarithromycin in Helicobacter pylori eradication is widely accepted, but this 
combination fails in a considerable number of cases. Our aim was to evaluate 
whether probiotic-containing yogurt affects the success of eradication. The 
second aim was to investigate the efficacy of probiotics in the prevention of 
the side effects related to eradication therapy.
METHODS: A total of 76 histopathologically proven H. pylori-positive patients 
enrolled in this study were randomized into two groups. The following regimens 
were recommended: Group A: pantoprazole (40 mg, b.i.d.), amoxicillin (1000 mg 
b.i.d.), clarithromycin (500 mg b.i.d.), and 125 ml of probiotic-containing 
yogurt (Bifidobacterium DN-173 010-1010 cfu/g) before breakfast for 14 days; and 
Group B: pantoprazole (40 mg, b.i.d.), amoxicillin (1000 mg b.i.d.) and 
clarithromycin (500 mg b.i.d.) for 14 days. Subjects were asked to report any 
side effects of therapy during the treatment period. H. pylori status was 
rechecked four weeks after the completion of the eradication therapy by 13C-urea 
breath test.
RESULTS: H. pylori eradication was achieved in 25 of the 38 patients in Group A 
(66%) and in 20 of the 38 patients (53%) in Group B. Although the success rate 
was higher in Group A than in Group B, the difference was not significant 
(p=0.350). The addition of probiotics to the triple therapy significantly 
lessened the frequency of stomatitis and constipation (p=0.037 and p=0.046, 
respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: The addition of probiotic-containing yogurt to the triple therapy 
did not increase the H. pylori eradication rates for the evaluated dosage and 
model; however, it decreased the frequency of stomatitis and constipation.

DOI: 10.4318/tjg.2010.0090
PMID: 20931422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Ann Dermatol Venereol. 2012 Jan;139(1):15-22. doi: 10.1016/j.annder.2011.10.397. 
Epub 2011 Dec 23.

[Six cases of spring DRESS].

[Article in French]

Bollaert M(1), Jeulin H, Waton J, Gastin I, Tréchot P, Rabaud C, Schmutz JL, 
Barbaud A.

Author information:
(1)Service de dermatologie, hôpitaux de Brabois, CHU de Nancy, bâtiment des 
spécialités médicales P.-Canton, Vandœuvre-lès-Nancy, France.

Comment in
    Ann Dermatol Venereol. 2012 Jan;139(1):3-5. doi: 
10.1016/j.annder.2011.11.001.

BACKGROUND: An association between herpes virus reactivations and Drug Reaction 
with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) is accepted. We report six cases 
of DRESS with viral reactivation occurring within a single 1-month period. We 
attempted to find a common factor for these six cases and carried out clinical 
and virological examinations. Before and after this "epidemic", the mean number 
of cases of DRESS seen at the same centre was one per quarter, making the 
occurrence of six cases within a single month all the more remarkable and 
prompting us to seek an explanation.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: All six patients had taken a partly causative medication 
from different drug classes three to six weeks prior to the start of symptoms 
and herpes virus was detected in the blood of all of these subjects at the time 
of DRESS onset (four reactivations and two primary infections), and one patient 
subsequently displayed herpetic meningoencephalitis 95 days after the initial 
episode, associated with recurrence of DRESS.
DISCUSSION: There was no common denominator among these six DRESS patients in 
terms of either drug class or reactivation of a particular type of herpes virus, 
which raises the possibility of a single unidentified environmental agent. DRESS 
does not appear fully explainable in terms of a cellular response to drug 
antigens but seems rather to result from complex interactions between the 
drug-induced immune response, viral reactivation and antiviral immune response. 
Several investigators have reported sequential reactivation of herpes viruses in 
DRESS. A viral epidemic could thus cause a "DRESS epidemic" in patients on 
medication.
CONCLUSION: These cases point to the possible existence of a shared initial 
environmental factor (infectious or not) that favours reactivation of herpes 
viruses and induces DRESS in patients on medication. Before and after this 
"DRESS epidemic", about one patient each quarter was admitted to hospital for 
DRESS.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.annder.2011.10.397
PMID: 22225738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. PLoS One. 2021 Mar 30;16(3):e0248720. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0248720. 
eCollection 2021.

Management of possible serious bacterial infection in young infants where 
referral is not possible in the context of existing health system structure in 
Ibadan, South-west Nigeria.

Ayede AI(1)(2), Ashubu OO(1)(2), Fowobaje KR(1)(2), Aboubaker S(3), Nisar YB(4), 
Qazi SA(3), Bahl R(4), Falade AG(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, College of Medicine, University of Ibadan and 
University College Hospital, Ibadan, Nigeria.
(2)Centre for African Newborn Health and Nutrition, University College Hospital, 
Ibadan, Nigeria.
(3)Former WHO Staff, Geneva, Switzerland.
(4)Department of Maternal, Newborn, Child, Adolescent Health and Aging, World 
Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland.

INTRODUCTION: Neonatal infections contribute substantially to infant mortality 
in Nigeria and globally. Management requires hospitalization, which is not 
accessible to many in low resource settings. World Health Organization developed 
a guideline to manage possible serious bacterial infection (PSBI) in young 
infants up to two months of age when a referral is not feasible. We evaluated 
the feasibility of implementing this guideline to achieve high coverage of 
treatment.
METHODS: This implementation research was conducted in out-patient settings of 
eight primary health care centres (PHC) in Lagelu Local Government Area (LGA) of 
Ibadan, Oyo State, Nigeria. We conducted policy dialogue with the Federal and 
State officials to adopt the WHO guideline within the existing programme setting 
and held orientation and sensitization meetings with communities. We established 
a Technical Support Unit (TSU), built the capacity of health care providers, 
supervised and mentored them, monitored the quality of services and collected 
data for management and outcomes of sick young infants with PSBI signs. The 
Primary Health Care Directorate of the state ministry and the local government 
led the implementation and provided technical support. The enablers and barriers 
to implementation were documented.
RESULTS: From 1 April 2016 to 31 July 2017 we identified 5278 live births and of 
these, 1214 had a sign of PSBI. Assuming 30% of births were missed due to 
temporary migration to maternal homes for delivery care and approximately 45% 
cases came from outside the catchment area due to free availability of 
medicines, the treatment coverage was 97.3% (668 cases/6861 expected births) 
with an expected 10% PSBI prevalence within the first 2 months of life. Of 1214 
infants with PSBI, 392 (32%) infants 7-59 days had only fast breathing 
(pneumonia), 338 (27.8%) infants 0-6 days had only fast breathing (severe 
pneumonia), 462 (38%) presented with signs of clinical severe infection (CSI) 
and 22 (1.8%) with signs of critical illness. All but two, 7-59 days old infants 
with pneumonia were treated with oral amoxicillin without a referral; 80% 
(312/390) adhered to full treatment; 97.7% (381/390) were cured, and no deaths 
were reported. Referral to the hospital was not accepted by 87.7% (721/822) 
families of infants presenting with signs of PSBI needing hospitalization 
(critical illness 5/22; clinical severe infection; 399/462 and severe pneumonia 
317/338). They were treated on an outpatient basis with two days of injectable 
gentamicin and seven days of oral amoxicillin. Among these 81% (584/721) 
completed treatment; 97% (700/721) were cured, and three deaths were reported 
(two with critical illness and one with clinical severe infection). We 
identified health system gaps including lack of staff motivation and work 
strikes, medicines stockouts, sub-optimal home visits that affected 
implementation.
CONCLUSIONS: When a referral is not feasible, outpatient treatment for young 
infants with signs of PSBI is possible within existing programme structures in 
Nigeria with high coverage and low case fatality. To scale up this intervention 
successfully, government commitment is needed to strengthen the health system, 
motivate and train health workers, provide necessary commodities, establish 
technical support for implementation and strengthen linkages with communities.
REGISTRATION: Trial is registered on Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials 
Registry (ANZCTR) ACTRN12617001373369.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0248720
PMCID: PMC8009401
PMID: 33784321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No competing interest.


219. Antibiotics (Basel). 2023 Jan 10;12(1):143. doi: 10.3390/antibiotics12010143.

Microbial Resistance to Antibiotics and Biofilm Formation of Bacterial Isolates 
from Different Carp Species and Risk Assessment for Public Health.

Puvača N(1), Ljubojević Pelić D(2), Pelić M(2), Bursić V(3), Tufarelli V(4), 
Piemontese L(5), Vuković G(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Engineering Management in Biotechnology, Faculty of Economics 
and Engineering Management in Novi Sad, University Business Academy in Novi Sad, 
Cvećarska 2, 21000 Novi Sad, Serbia.
(2)Scientific Veterinary Institute Novi Sad, Rumenački Put 20, 21000 Novi Sad, 
Serbia.
(3)Faculty of Agriculture, University of Novi Sad, Trg Dositeja Obradovića 8, 
21000 Novi Sad, Serbia.
(4)Department of Precision and Regenerative Medicine and Jonian Area 
(DiMePRe-J), Section of Veterinary Science and Animal Production, University of 
Bari 'Aldo Moro', 70010 Bari, Italy.
(5)Department of Pharmacy-Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Bari Aldo Moro, 
70125 Bari, Italy.
(6)Faculty of Agriculture, University of Belgrade, 11080 Belgrade, Serbia.

The aim of this research was to investigate the effects of biofilm on antibiotic 
resistance of the bacterial isolates present in fish meat and to assess the risk 
of antibiotic residues for public health. Common carp, silver carp and grass 
carp fishes were purchased from retail stores for an in vitro biofilm 
investigation and a drug-resistant pattern determination. In all samples, up to 
104 CFU/g of bacteria, such as Escherichia coli, Aeromonas hydrophila, 
Shewanella putrefaciens, Vibrio spp. and Staphylococcus spp., were observed. 
Isolates from the samples and their biofilms were subjected to an antibiogram 
assay using antibiotics such as amoxicillin, ampicillin, cefotaxime, 
ciprofloxacin, chloramphenicol, gentamicin, streptomycin, tetracycline and 
trimethoprim. Obtained results showed that some of the isolates were sensitive 
to antibiotics and some were resistant. Results of LC-MS/MS analysis showed that 
antibiotics residues were present in fish samples in the range between 4.9 and 
199.4 µg/kg, with a total sum of 417.1 µg/kg. Estimated daily intake (EDI) was 
established to be 0.274 μg/kg of body weight/day for men and 0.332 μg/kg of body 
weight/day for women, with an acceptable daily intake (ADI) of 8.5 and 7.0 µg/kg 
of body weight/day for men and women, respectively. The results of the present 
study, therefore, highlight the safe consumption of fresh fish.

DOI: 10.3390/antibiotics12010143
PMCID: PMC9855140
PMID: 36671344

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript; or in the decision to 
publish the results.


220. Rev Gastroenterol Peru. 2023 Apr-Jun;43(2):116-119.

[Quadruple treatment with doxycycline, furazolidone, bismuth and proton pump 
inhibitor is still effective against Helicobacter pylori in our population].

[Article in Spanish]

Barreda-Costa CS(1), Piccini-Larco JR(1), Chu-Revollar LD(1), Salazar-Muente 
F(1), Barriga-Briceño JA(1), Herrera-Alzamora MA(2).

Author information:
(1)Médico Gastroenterólogo.
(2)Médico General. Servicio de Gastroenterología y Hepatología, Clínica Ricardo 
Palma. Lima, Perú.

Our objective is to determine the effectiveness of a therapeutic regimen for 
helicobacter pylori that includes a proton pump inhibitor, doxycycline, 
furazolidone and bismuth in our location. We carried out a retrospective study, 
non-randomized, in a private hospital in Lima, Peru. Patients with biopsy and/or 
rapid urease test proven helicobacter pylori infection after an endoscopy, from 
January 2017 to October 2022 were included. They received the therapeutic 
regimen of the study or an alternative triple regimen with a proton pump 
inhibitor, amoxicillin and levofloxacin and were followed with a urea breath 
test within 1 to 6 months upon completion of therapy. The quadruple therapy with 
furazolidone obtained success in 117/122 cases (95.9%) while the triple therapy 
with levofloxacin only in 5/16 (31.2%) when used for 7 days and 22/38 (57.9%) 
when used for 10 days, a statistically significant difference with p<0.001. 
Conclusion: Quadruple therapy with furazolidone reached high effectiveness in 
our location, while triple therapy with levofloxacin was not an acceptable 
alternative.

PMID: 37597225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2001 May;15(5):613-24. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-2036.2001.00974.x.

A systematic comparison of triple therapies for treatment of Helicobacter pylori 
infection with proton pump inhibitor/ ranitidine bismuth citrate plus 
clarithromycin and either amoxicillin or a nitroimidazole.

Janssen MJ(1), Van Oijen AH, Verbeek AL, Jansen JB, De Boer WA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University Medical Centre St. 
Radboud, Nijmegen, The Netherlands. marceljanssen6@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: Triple therapies with proton pump inhibitor/ranitidine bismuth 
citrate (RBC), clarithromycin (C) and either amoxicillin (A) or a nitroimidazole 
(I) are widely accepted as treatment for Helicobacter pylori infection. However, 
it is not clear which of these antibiotic combinations should be preferred.
AIM: To evaluate whether there is a difference in efficacy between triple 
therapies with proton pump inhibitor/RBC, clarithromycin and either amoxicillin 
or a nitroimidazole.
METHODS: The literature was examined for randomized trials comparing proton pump 
inhibitor/RBC-C-A and proton pump inhibitor/RBC-C-I. Studies were grouped 
according to the type of acid inhibitor used (proton pump inhibitor or RBC) and 
differences between pooled cure rates were calculated.
RESULTS: Forty-seven studies were identified: seven using RBC, 39 using proton 
pump inhibitor, one using both. RBC-C-I was somewhat superior to RBC-C-A, 
although this difference only reached statistical significance in 
intention-to-treat analysis. Overall, proton pump inhibitor-C-I and proton pump 
inhibitor-C-A were equally effective, but in nitroimidazole-susceptible strains, 
proton pump inhibitor-C-I performed better, in nitroimidazole-resistant strains, 
proton pump inhibitor-C-A performed better. No serious side-effects were 
reported and pooled drop-out rates were equal.
CONCLUSIONS: In general, proton pump inhibitor-C-I and proton pump inhibitor-C-A 
are equally effective and therefore other factors such as local prevalence of 
resistant strains, cost of therapy and options for second-line treatment should 
determine which regimen should be preferred. When using RBC, the RBC-C-I 
combination is somewhat superior to RBC-C-A.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2036.2001.00974.x
PMID: 11328254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Antibiotics (Basel). 2022 Mar 2;11(3):329. doi: 10.3390/antibiotics11030329.

Investigation of the Quality of the 12 Most-Used Antibiotics Available in Retail 
Private Pharmacies in Rwanda.

Bizimana T(1), Kagisha V(1), Nyandwi JB(1), Nyirimigabo AK(2), Muganga R(1), 
Mukanyangezi MF(1), Kayitare E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, School of Medicine and Pharmacy, College of Medicine 
and Health Sciences, University of Rwanda, Kigali P.O. Box 3286, Rwanda.
(2)Division of Quality Control Laboratory, Rwanda Food and Drugs Authority, 
Kigali P.O. Box 1948, Rwanda.

Using poor-quality antibiotics leads to increased risk of the development of 
microorganism-resistant strains, treatment failure, loss of confidence in health 
systems, and associated socio-economic impacts. The prevalence of poor-quality 
antibiotics has been found to be high in some of the Low and Middle-Income 
Countries (LMICs), but no data were available on the situation in Rwanda. This 
study was conducted to obtain data and inform health professionals on the 
quality of the 12 most-used selected antibiotics from private retail pharmacies 
in Rwanda. The investigation was conducted on 232 batches collected from 
randomly selected private retail pharmacies in all provinces of Rwanda, and 
concerned only with visual inspection and assay tests. Visual inspection was 
performed using a tool adopted by the International Pharmaceutical Federation 
(FIP) to identify manufacturing defects. An assay test quantified the Active 
Pharmaceutical Ingredient (API) in each collected batch using high-performance 
liquid chromatography (HPLC) coupled with an ultraviolet-visible (UV) detector, 
and the results were reported as the percentage content of the amount of APIs 
stated on the label. A total of 232 batches were analyzed, manufactured in 10 
countries; the main country of manufacture was Kenya, with almost half of the 
batches (49.6%). The results of the visual inspection did not show the presence 
of counterfeit/ falsified antibiotics on the Rwandan market in this study but 
revealed weaknesses in labeling: more than 90% of the analyzed batches of the 12 
antibiotics did not present the dosage statement on their label, and the 
complete list of excipients was missing in more than 20% of the analyzed 
batches. The assay test using HPLC confirmed the presence of APIs in 100% of the 
analyzed batches. However, moderate deviations from acceptable ranges of the API 
content defined by M. M. Nasr & C. M. Stanley in 2006 for erythromycin and the 
United States Pharmacopoeia 2018 for the other 11 molecules were found. The 
failure rate to meet the quality requirements in terms of the percentage content 
of active pharmaceutical ingredients declared on the labels was estimated at 
8.2% in total, with 3.9% and 4.3% containing more and less than the amount of 
APIs stated on the labels respectively. The most-represented antibiotics on the 
Rwandan market were amoxicillin, co-trimoxazole and cloxacillin. No counterfeit 
antibiotics were found in this study. However, substandard batches with moderate 
deviations were found, suggesting that regular quality control of antibiotics is 
needed in Rwanda.

DOI: 10.3390/antibiotics11030329
PMCID: PMC8944805
PMID: 35326792

Conflict of interest statement: Among the analyzed batches of antibiotics, there 
were some batches manufactured by the sponsor of the project. However, the 
funder had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to 
publish the results.


223. J Res Pharm Pract. 2016 Oct-Dec;5(4):248-251. doi: 10.4103/2279-042X.192462.

Addition of cranberry to proton pump inhibitor-based triple therapy for 
Helicobacter pylori eradication.

Seyyedmajidi M(1), Ahmadi A(1), Hajiebrahimi S(1), Seyedmajidi S(1), 
Rajabikashani M(1), Firoozabadi M(1), Vafaeimanesh J(2).

Author information:
(1)Golestan Research Center of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Golestan 
University of Medical Sciences, Gorgan, Golestan Province, Iran.
(2)Qom Gastroenterology and Hepatology Research Center, Qom University of 
Medical Sciences, Qom, Iran; Gastrointestinal and Liver Diseases Research 
Center, Iran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

OBJECTIVE: Proton pump inhibitor-based triple therapy with two antibiotics for 
Helicobacter pylori eradication is widely accepted, but this combination fails 
in a considerable number of cases. Some studies have shown that cranberry 
inhibits the adhesion of a wide range of microbial pathogens, including H. 
pylori. The aim of this study was to assess the effect of cranberry on H. pylori 
eradication with a standard therapy including lansoprazole, clarithromycin, and 
amoxicillin (LCA) in patients with peptic ulcer disease (PUD).
METHODS: In this study, H. pylori-positive patients with PUD were randomized 
into two groups: Group A: A 14-day LCA triple therapy with 30 mg lansoprazole 
bid, 1000 mg amoxicillin bid, and 500 mg clarithromycin bid; Group B: A 14-day 
500 mg cranberry capsules bid plus LCA triple therapy. A 13C-urea breath test 
was performed for eradication assessment 6 weeks after the completion of the 
treatment.
FINDINGS: Two hundred patients (53.5% males, between 23 and 77 years, mean age ± 
standard deviation: 50.29 ± 17.79 years) continued treatment protocols and 
underwent 13C-urea breath testing. H. pylori eradication was achieved in 74% in 
Group A (LCA without cranberry) and 89% in Group B (LCA with cranberry) (P = 
0.042).
CONCLUSION: The addition of cranberry to LCA triple therapy for H. pylori has a 
higher rate of eradication than the standard regimen alone (up to 89% and 
significant).

DOI: 10.4103/2279-042X.192462
PMCID: PMC5084481
PMID: 27843960


224. PLoS One. 2021 Aug 9;16(8):e0255210. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0255210. 
eCollection 2021.

Implementation research on management of sick young infants with possible 
serious bacterial infection when referral is not possible in Jimma Zone, 
Ethiopia: Challenges and solutions.

Berhane M(1), Girma T(1), Tesfaye W(1), Jibat N(2), Abera M(3), Abrahim S(4), 
Aboubaker S(5), Nisar YB(6), Ahmad Qazi S(5), Bahl R(6), Abdissa A(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics and Child Health, Jimma University, Jimma, Ethiopia.
(2)College of Social Sciences and Humanities, Jimma University, Jimma, Ethiopia.
(3)Department of Population and Family Health, Jimma University, Jimma, 
Ethiopia.
(4)Oromia Regional Health Bureau, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
(5)Department of Maternal, Newborn, Child, Adolescent Health and Ageing, World 
Health Organization (Retired) Currently WHO consultants, Geneva, Switzerland.
(6)Department of Maternal, Newborn, Child and Adolescent Health and Ageing, 
World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland.
(7)School of Medical Laboratory Sciences, Jimma University, Jimma, Ethiopia.

INTRODUCTION: Of 2.5 million newborn deaths each year, serious neonatal 
infections are a leading cause of neonatal death for which inpatient treatment 
is recommended. However, manysick newborns in sub-Saharan Africa and south Asia 
do not have access to inpatientcare. A World Health Organization (WHO) guideline 
recommends simplified antibiotic treatment atan outpatient level for young 
infants up to two months of age with possible serious bacterial infection 
(PSBI), when referral is not feasible.We implemented this guidelinein Ethiopia 
to increase coverage of treatment and to learn about potential facilitating 
factors and barriers for implementation.
METHODS: We conducted implementation research in two districts (Tiro Afata and 
Gera) in Jimma Zone, Ethiopia, to learn about the feasibility of implementing 
the WHO PSBI guideline within a programme setting using the existing health care 
structure. We conducted orientation meetings and policy dialogue with key 
stakeholders and trained health extension workers and health centre staff to 
identify and manage sick young infants with PSBI signs at a primary health care 
unit. We established a Technical Support Unit (TSU) to facilitate programme 
learning, built health workers' capacity and provided support for quality 
control, monitoring and data collection.We sensitized the community to 
appropriate care-seeking and supported the health care system in implementation. 
The research team collected data using structured case recording forms.
RESULTS: From September 2016 to August 2017, 6185 live births and 601 sick young 
infants 0-59 days of age with signs of PSBI were identified. Assuming that 25% 
of births were missed (total births 7731) and 10% of births had an episode of 
PSBI in the first two months of life, the coverage of appropriate treatment for 
PSBI was 77.7% (601/773). Of 601 infants with PSBI, fast breathing only 
(pneumonia) was recorded in 432 (71.9%) infants 7-59 days of age; signs of 
clinical severe infection (CSI) in 155 (25.8%) and critical illnessin 14 (2.3%). 
Of the 432 pneumonia cases who received oral amoxicillin treatment without 
referral, 419 (97.0%) were successfully treated without any deaths. Of 169 sick 
young infants with either CSI or critical illness, only 110 were referred to a 
hospital; 83 did not accept referral advice and received outpatient injectable 
gentamicin plus oral amoxicillin treatment either at a health post or health 
centre. Additionally, 59 infants who should have been referred, but were not 
received injectable gentamicin plus oral amoxicillin outpatient treatment. Of 
infants with CSI, 129 (82.2%) were successfully treated as outpatients, while 
two died (1.3%). Of 14 infants with critical illness, the caregivers of five 
accepted referral to a hospital, and nine were treated with simplified 
antibiotics on an outpatient basis. Two of 14 (14.3%) infants with critical 
illness died within 14 days of initial presentation.
CONCLUSION: In settings where referral to a hospital is not feasible, young 
infants with PSBI can be treated on an outpatient basis at either a health post 
or health centre, which can contribute to saving many lives. Scaling-up will 
require health system strengthening including community mobilization.
REGISTRATION: Trial is registered on Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials 
registry (ANZCTR) ACTRN12617001373369.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0255210
PMCID: PMC8351942
PMID: 34370744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Rajiv Bahl and Yasir Bin Nisar are staff members 
of the World Health Organization. The expressedviews and opinions do not 
necessarily express the policies of the World Health Organization. This does not 
alter our adherence to PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials.


225. Pediatr Infect Dis J. 2000 Dec;19(12 Suppl):S174-80. doi: 
10.1097/00006454-200012001-00008.

Comparison of the palatability of the oral suspension of cefdinir vs. 
amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium, cefprozil and azithromycin in pediatric 
patients.

Powers JL(1), Gooch WM 3rd, Oddo LP.

Author information:
(1)Hill Top Research, Inc, Scottsdale, AZ, USA.

BACKGROUND: Patient adherence to therapeutic regimens is extremely important to 
successful treatment of acute otitis media. Among pediatric patients medication 
palatability, particularly that of oral suspensions, is essential for patient 
acceptance, therapeutic compliance and successful outcome.
METHODS: A series of six randomized, single blind, crossover trials were 
conducted, each comparing cefdinir oral suspension with one of the following 
antibiotic oral suspensions: amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium; cefprozil; or 
azithromycin. Each medication comparison was evaluated in a single center and 
multicenter study. Subjects 4 to 8 years of age were asked to taste and smell 
each medication and assign preference using a visual "smile-face" scale. Ratings 
were converted to a numeric score ranging from 5 ("really good") to 1 ("really 
bad").
RESULTS: Among the 715 subjects 85% rated the taste of cefdinir as good or 
really good, the highest possible ratings; 63% of subjects assigned the same 
ratings to amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium, cefprozil or azithromycin. 
Seventy-one percent rated the smell of cefdinir as good or really good; 64% 
assigned the same ratings to the comparators.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on the findings from these trials, children 4 to 8 years of 
age preferred the taste and smell of cefdinir oral suspension to that of the 
comparator agents.

DOI: 10.1097/00006454-200012001-00008
PMID: 11144401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Semin Gastrointest Dis. 2001 Jul;12(3):167-79.

Treatment of Helicobacter pylori infection.

Miehlke S(1), Bayerdörffer E, Graham DY.

Author information:
(1)Medical Department I, Technical University Hospital Dresden, Germany.

Helicobacter pylori is a serious, chronic, progressive, and transmissible 
infection associated with a significant morbidity and mortality, which alone 
emphasizes the priority of developing adequate prophylactic or therapeutic 
measures. What was previously termed "asymptomatic H. pylori infection" is now 
recognized as a latent infection, and it is now accepted that the presence of an 
H. pylori infection is an indication for eradication therapy. Successful cure of 
H. pylori infection requires 2 or more antibiotics. Antibiotic resistance is the 
major impediment of cure. The ideal duration of therapy is unknown, but in 
general, 1 week therapy is less effective than longer durations. Compliance is 
important for the success of treatment; therefore, the favored regimen should 
have the least side effects. At present, a proton pump inhibitor (or ranitidine 
bismuth citrate)-clarithromycin triple therapy with either amoxicillin or 
metronidazole, for at least 10 days is considered first-line therapy. The 
alternative is quadruple therapy containing a proton pump inhibitor, bismuth, 
tetracycline, and a higher dose of metronidazole. Quadruple therapy is the best 
choice after failure of proton pump inhibitor-clarithromycin triple therapy. 
Confirmation of successful therapy with a urea breath test or a stool antigen 
test is now the standard of practice.

PMID: 11478749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Talanta. 2020 Dec 1;220:121326. doi: 10.1016/j.talanta.2020.121326. Epub 2020 
Jul 7.

Multi-class analysis of 46 antimicrobial drug residues in pond water using 
UHPLC-Orbitrap-HRMS and application to freshwater ponds in Flanders, Belgium.

Goessens T(1), Huysman S(2), De Troyer N(3), Deknock A(3), Goethals P(3), Lens 
L(4), Vanhaecke L(5), Croubels S(6).

Author information:
(1)Ghent University, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Department of Pharmacology, 
Toxicology and Biochemistry, Laboratory of Pharmacology and Toxicology, 
Merelbeke, Belgium.
(2)Ghent University, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Department of Veterinary 
Public Health and Food Safety, Laboratory of Chemical Analysis, Merelbeke, 
Belgium.
(3)Ghent University, Faculty of Bioscience Engineering, Department of Animal 
Science and Aquatic Ecology, Laboratory of Environmental Toxicology and Aquatic 
Ecology, Ghent, Belgium.
(4)Ghent University, Faculty of Sciences, Department of Biology, Terrestrial 
Ecology Unit, Ghent, Belgium.
(5)Ghent University, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Department of Veterinary 
Public Health and Food Safety, Laboratory of Chemical Analysis, Merelbeke, 
Belgium; Queen's University, School of Biological Sciences, Institute for Global 
Food Security, Belfast, Ireland.
(6)Ghent University, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Department of Pharmacology, 
Toxicology and Biochemistry, Laboratory of Pharmacology and Toxicology, 
Merelbeke, Belgium. Electronic address: Siska.croubels@ugent.be.

Increasing anthropogenic pressure and agricultural pollution raises concerns 
regarding antimicrobial resistance and biodiversity loss in aquatic 
environments. In order to protect and restore water resources and biodiversity, 
antimicrobial drug residues should be monitored in all aquatic environments 
including pond water. Consequently, the objective of this research was to 
develop and validate a novel multi-residue method for the simultaneous 
quantification of 46 targeted human and veterinary antimicrobial drugs in pond 
water. A suitable extraction method based on solid-phase extraction (SPE) was 
developed, assisted by a fractional factorial design. A broad polarity range of 
compounds was covered (log P from -4.05 to 4.38), including major 
representatives of the following classes: sulfonamides, tetracyclines, 
quinolones, macrolides, lincosamides, nitrofurans, penicillins, cephalosporins, 
diaminopyrimidines, pleuromutilins and phenicols. All analytes were separated 
using ultra-high performance liquid chromatography (UHPLC) and detected in 
full-scan by Orbitrap high resolution mass spectrometry (Orbitrap-HRMS). Good 
linearity was obtained for all compounds with R2 ≥ 0.993 and goodness-of-fit 
coefficient (g) ≤ 11.56%. Method detection limits ranged from 10 to 50 ng L-1 
and method quantification limits were 50 ng L-1 for all compounds. Acceptable 
values were obtained for within-day and between-day apparent recoveries (i.e. 
between 50 and 120%), precision (< 30% and < 45%) and measurement uncertainty (< 
50%). Targeted analysis of 18 freshwater ponds throughout Flanders was performed 
to demonstrate the applicability of the newly developed UHPLC-HRMS method. 
Overall, 20 antimicrobial drugs were detected with highest concentrations 
observed for tetracyclines and their transformation products ranging between 51 
and 248 ng L-1. Finally, suspect screening was performed suggesting the presence 
of 14 additional pharmaceuticals including 3 antimicrobial degradation products 
(e.g. apo-oxytetracycline, amoxicillin penicilloic acid and penilloic acid) and 
11 pesticides.

Copyright © 2020 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.talanta.2020.121326
PMID: 32928381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. J Matern Fetal Neonatal Med. 2022 Oct;35(19):3743-3750. doi: 
10.1080/14767058.2020.1839878. Epub 2020 Oct 27.

Preterm prelabor rupture of membranes management in Switzerland: a national 
survey.

Migliorelli F(1), Martin C(1), Martínez de Tejada B(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Gynecology, and Obstetrics, Division of Obstetrics, 
Geneva University Hospitals, Geneva, Switzerland.
(2)Faculty of Medicine, University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland.

OBJECTIVE: To gain an overview of the current management of patients with 
preterm prelabor rupture of membranes (PPROM) in Swiss maternity hospitals.
STUDY DESIGN: We conducted a survey among all maternity hospitals in Switzerland 
from January to December 2018, irrespective of their annual birth rate and level 
of complexity. The survey consisted of an 11-item questionnaire, which was 
developed to retrieve information relevant to different areas of PPROM 
management.
RESULTS: Of 64 questionnaires distributed by email, 36 (56.3%) centers responded 
to the survey. Up to 12 different antibiotic regimens were reported. Among 
these, 91.7% included a beta-lactam, with amoxicillin as the preferred agent 
(55.6%). Combined antibiotic schemes were used in 30.6% of hospitals. All 
centers considered the use of corticosteroids for fetal lung maturity if PPROM 
occurred before 34 weeks, although 36.1% would consider their use until 37 
weeks' gestation in the presence of an increased risk of neonatal respiratory 
distress syndrome. Maternity hospitals who accept deliveries at any gestational 
age usually used magnesium sulfate as fetal neuroprotection when delivering 
babies <32 weeks, with the exception of two hospitals where it was either not 
used or only indicated if maternal preeclampsia was present. Concerning the time 
to delivery, 58.3% centers tended to wait until 37 weeks' gestation, while the 
others considered that it was not necessary to go beyond 34 weeks.
CONCLUSION: Our survey shows that the current management of PPROM in Switzerland 
appears to be mostly in line with international recommendations. However, some 
heterogeneity exists, thus reflecting a lack of international consensus across 
guidelines, together with the absence of national Swiss guidelines, and this 
needs to be addressed to ensure high quality care for all patients and neonates.

DOI: 10.1080/14767058.2020.1839878
PMID: 33108920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. J Pharm Biomed Anal. 2004 Nov 15;36(3):565-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jpba.2004.07.015.

A liquid chromatographic method for simultaneous determination of amoxicillin 
sodium and sulbactam sodium in a combination formulation.

Wang P(1), Qi M, Sun Y, Yang J.

Author information:
(1)Shenyang Pharmtech Institute of Pharmaceuticals, Shenyang 110016, China.

An isocratic liquid chromatographic method with UV detection at 210nm is 
described for simultaneous determination of amoxicillin sodium and sulbactam 
sodium in a new combination formulation. Chromatographic separation of the two 
drugs was achieved on a Hypersil C(18) column using a mobile phase consisting of 
a binary mixture of methanol and 0.01mol/l sodium acetate (5:95, v/v). The 
commonly used paired-ion aqueous mobile phase for the determination of 
penicillins was avoided in this study. The developed LC method offers symmetric 
peak shape, good resolution and reasonable retention time for both drugs. 
Linearity, accuracy and precision were found to be acceptable over the 
concentration ranges of 155.3-1553.0microg/ml for amoxicillin sodium and 
45.0-450.0microg/ml for sulbactam sodium. The proposed LC method can be used for 
the quality control of formulated products containing these two drugs.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpba.2004.07.015
PMID: 15522531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Anal Sci. 2006 Jan;22(1):131-5. doi: 10.2116/analsci.22.131.

Sequential injection analysis for the simultaneous determination of clavulanic 
acid and amoxicillin in pharmaceuticals using second-order calibration.

Pasamontes A(1), Callao MP.

Author information:
(1)Departament de Química Analítica i Química Orgànica, Universitat Rovira i 
Virgili, Marcel-lí Domingo s/n (Campus Sescelades), 43007 Tarragona, Spain. 
alberto.pasamontes@urv.net

In this paper, we report on a method for quantifying clavulanic acid and 
amoxicillin simultaneously in pharmaceuticals using sequential injection 
analysis (SIA) with a diode-array spectrophotometric detector and multivariate 
curve resolution with alternating least squares (MCR-ALS). We optimized the 
experimental parameters so that the analytical sequence could distinguish the 
concentrations and spectrum profiles of the species of interest with optimum 
resolution quality. After establishing the optimum conditions, we quantified 
clavulanic acid and amoxicillin in four pharmaceuticals. In most cases our 
results were slightly higher than those in the prospectus of the pharmaceutical. 
The relative standard deviations were below 5% for amoxicillin and below 7% for 
clavulanic acid. These results are acceptable because, to prevent degradation 
due to bacteriostatic activity, the concentration of the main reactant is 
usually higher.

DOI: 10.2116/analsci.22.131
PMID: 16429788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. J Dig Dis. 2017 Dec;18(12):704-708. doi: 10.1111/1751-2980.12559.

Evaluation of first-line bismuth-containing 7-day concomitant quintuple therapy 
for Helicobacter pylori eradication.

Ye JF(1), Hong JB(1), Zhu Y(1), Xie Y(2), Shu X(1), Luo LY(1), Xie C(1), Zhu 
ZH(1), Lu NH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, First Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang 
University, Nanchang, Jiangxi Province, China.
(2)Institute of Digestion, First Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang University, 
Nanchang, Jiangxi Province, China.

OBJECTIVE: Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection is difficult to cure, 
mainly due to antibiotic resistance. This study aimed to determine the efficacy 
and safety of 7-day bismuth-containing concomitant quintuple regimen for H. 
pylori eradication.
METHODS: Conducted from August 2015 to February 2016 at the First Affiliated 
Hospital of Nanchang University, this prospective trial enrolled 70 untreated 
patients who were positive for H. pylori. The patients received 7-day quintuple 
therapy consisting of bismuth subcitrate 220 mg, esomeprazole 20 mg, 
clarithromycin 500 mg, amoxicillin 1 g and metronidazole 400 mg, each was given 
twice daily. All patients underwent a 13 C-urea breath test at 4 weeks after 
treatment.
RESULTS: A total of 70 patients at a mean age of 43.5 years, including 36 men, 
were included in this trial. One person who violated the protocol was further 
excluded. The treatment compliance rate was 99.6%. The overall eradication rates 
of the 7-day bismuth-containing concomitant quintuple therapy were 75.4% 
(intention-to-treat analysis) and 86.7% (per-protocol analysis). The prevalence 
of side effects was 31.9%, including a bitter taste (23.2%), nausea (4.3%), 
dizziness (2.9%), diarrhea (2.9%), limb asthenia (2.9%), skin rash (1.4%), 
numbness of the tip of the tongue (1.4%) and insomnia (1.4%).
CONCLUSIONS: The 7-day bismuth-containing concomitant quintuple therapy may not 
be superior to traditionally widely accepted therapy due to its lack of 
acceptable efficacy and high rate of side effects.

© 2017 Chinese Medical Association Shanghai Branch, Chinese Society of 
Gastroenterology, Renji Hospital Affiliated to Shanghai Jiaotong University 
School of Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1751-2980.12559
PMID: 29119724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Arzneimittelforschung. 2007;57(4):227-31. doi: 10.1055/s-0031-1296609.

Comparative pharmacokinetics of two tablet formulations of amoxicillin: 
bioequivalence assessment.

Sailer R(1), Arnold P, Erenmemişoğlu A, Martin W, Tamur U, Kanzik I, Hincal AA.

Author information:
(1)Pharmakin GmbH, Gesellschaft für Pharmakokinetik, Ulm, Germany. 
reinhard.sailer@pharmakin.de

The aim of the present study was to compare the bioavailability of amoxicillin 
(CAS 26787-78-0) from two different amoxicillin tablets (Demoksil 1 g tablet as 
test preparation and 1 g tablet of the originator product as reference 
preparation). The study was conducted according to an open-label, randomised 
two-period cross-over design with a wash-out phase of 4-7 days. Blood samples 
for pharmacokinetic profiling were taken up to 10 h post-dose, and amoxicillin 
plasma concentrations were determined with a validated LC-MS/ MS method. Maximum 
plasma concentrations (C(max)) of 13,296.4 ng/ml (test) and 12,797.7 ng/ml 
(reference) were achieved. Areas under the plasma concentration-time curve 
(AUC(0-infinity)) of 39,556.7 ng x h/ml (test) and 38,599.1 ng x h/ml 
(reference) were calculated. The median t(max) was 1.62 h (test) and 1.54 h 
(reference). Plasma elimination half-lives (t(1/2)) of 1.64 h (test) and 1.65 h 
(reference) were determined. Both primary target parameters, AUC(0-infinity) and 
C(max) were tested parametrically by analysis of variance (ANOVA) and the 90% 
confidence intervals were between 96.76%-108.46% (AUC(0-infinity)) and 
97.80%-111.98% (C(max)). Bioequivalence between test and reference preparation 
was demonstrated since for both parameters, AUC and C(max) the 90% confidence 
intervals of the T/R-ratios of logarithmically transformed data were in the 
generally accepted range of 80%-125%.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0031-1296609
PMID: 17515293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Biomed Res Int. 2015;2015:163960. doi: 10.1155/2015/163960. Epub 2015 May 18.

Comparison of Second-Line Quadruple Therapies with or without Bismuth for 
Helicobacter pylori Infection.

Jheng GH(1), Wu IC(2), Shih HY(3), Wu MC(3), Kuo FC(4), Hu HM(2), Liu CJ(5), Hsu 
WH(2), Hu CT(6), Bair MJ(7), Kuo CH(8), Wu DC(9), Hsu PI(10).

Author information:
(1)Graduate Institute of Clinical Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical University, 
Kaohsiung City 807, Taiwan ; Department of Internal Medicine, Kaohsiung 
Municipal United Hospital, Kaohsiung City 804, Taiwan.
(2)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Internal Medicine, Kaohsiung 
Medical University Hospital, Kaohsiung 807, Taiwan ; Department of Medicine, 
Faculty of Medicine, College of Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical University, 
Kaohsiung City 807, Taiwan ; Center for Stem Cell Research, Kaohsiung Medical 
University, Kaohsiung City 807, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, Kaohsiung Municipal Hsiao-Kang Hospital, 
Kaohsiung City 812, Taiwan.
(4)School of Medicine, College of Medicine, E-Da Hospital, I-Shou University, 
Kaohsiung City 824, Taiwan.
(5)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Internal Medicine, Kaohsiung 
Medical University Hospital, Kaohsiung 807, Taiwan ; Center for Stem Cell 
Research, Kaohsiung Medical University, Kaohsiung City 807, Taiwan.
(6)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Internal Medicine, Buddhist Tzu 
Chi General Hospital and School of Medicine, Tzu Chi University, Hualien 970, 
Taiwan.
(7)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Internal Medicine, Mackay 
Memorial Hospital, Taitung Branch, Taitung City 950, Taiwan.
(8)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Internal Medicine, Kaohsiung 
Medical University Hospital, Kaohsiung 807, Taiwan ; Department of Medicine, 
Faculty of Medicine, College of Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical University, 
Kaohsiung City 807, Taiwan ; Center for Stem Cell Research, Kaohsiung Medical 
University, Kaohsiung City 807, Taiwan ; Department of Internal Medicine, 
Kaohsiung Municipal Cijin Hospital, Kaohsiung City 812, Taiwan.
(9)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Internal Medicine, Kaohsiung 
Medical University Hospital, Kaohsiung 807, Taiwan ; Department of Medicine, 
Faculty of Medicine, College of Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical University, 
Kaohsiung City 807, Taiwan ; Center for Stem Cell Research, Kaohsiung Medical 
University, Kaohsiung City 807, Taiwan ; Department of Internal Medicine, 
Kaohsiung Municipal Hsiao-Kang Hospital, Kaohsiung City 812, Taiwan ; Center for 
Infectious Disease and Cancer Research, Kaohsiung Medical University, Kaohsiung 
City 807, Taiwan.
(10)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Internal Medicine, Kaohsiung 
Veterans General Hospital, National Yang-Ming University, Kaohsiung 813, Taiwan.

The bismuth-based quadruple regimen has been applied in Helicobacter pylori 
rescue therapy worldwide. The non-bismuth-based quadruple therapy or 
"concomitant therapy" is an alternative option in first-line eradication but has 
not been used in second-line therapy. Discovering a valid regimen for rescue 
therapy in bismuth-unavailable countries is important. We conducted a randomized 
controlled trial to compare the efficacies of the standard quadruple therapy and 
a modified concomitant regimen. One hundred and twenty-four patients were 
randomly assigned into two groups: RBTM (rabeprozole 20 mg bid., bismuth 
subcitrate 120 mg qid, tetracycline 500 mg qid, and metronidazole 250 mg qid) 
and RATM (rabeprozole 20 mg bid., amoxicillin 1 g bid., tetracycline 500 mg qid, 
and metronidazole 250 mg qid) for 10 days. The eradication rate of the RBTM and 
RATM regimen was 92.1% and 90.2%, respectively, in intention-to-treat analysis. 
Patients in both groups had good compliance (~96%). The overall incidence of 
adverse events was higher in the RATM group (42.6% versus 22.2%, P = 0.02), but 
only seven patients (11.5%) experienced grades 2-3 events. In conclusion, both 
regimens had good efficacy, compliance, and acceptable side effects. The 10-day 
RATM treatment could be an alternative rescue therapy in bismuth-unavailable 
countries.

DOI: 10.1155/2015/163960
PMCID: PMC4450213
PMID: 26090383 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. J Clin Pharm Ther. 1994 Apr;19(2):73-80. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2710.1994.tb01115.x.

Duodenal ulcer treatment: progress from pH to HP.

Reilly TG(1), Walt RP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Edgbaston, Birmingham, U.K.

The treatment of duodenal ulcer has evolved from ineffective medical treatments 
through an era of surgical management, back to increasingly effective medical 
treatment. The advent of H2-receptor antagonists changed the outlook for ulcer 
patients. More recently, Helicobacter pylori, an organism which inhabits gastric 
mucosa exclusively, has been implicated in the pathogenesis of peptic ulcer. 
This bacterium is found in the stomachs of around 95% of duodenal ulcer 
patients. Its eradication is shown dramatically to improve the rate at which 
ulcers relapse. The mechanisms whereby it may cause ulceration are not 
established--we review current hypotheses. No method of eradication is 100% 
effective, and many different dual or triple therapy regimens have been tried. 
Metronidazole resistance is reported but its importance is not yet known. 
Helicobacter eradication is likely to prove a cost-effective and acceptable 
treatment for duodenal ulcer, and once its value has gained acceptance 
widespread uptake of this option is anticipated.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2710.1994.tb01115.x
PMID: 8071396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Curr Ther Res Clin Exp. 2008 Dec;69(6):504-13. doi: 
10.1016/S0011-393X(09)00002-2.

Bioequivalence evaluation of two capsule formulations of amoxicillin in healthy 
adult male bangladeshi volunteers: A single-dose, randomized, open-label, 
two-period crossover study.

Ullah A(1), Azad MA(2), Sultana R(1), Akbor MM(1), Hasan A(1), Latif M(3), 
Hasnat A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacy and Pharmacology, University of Dhaka, Dhaka, 
Bangladesh.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Technology, University of Dhaka, Dhaka, 
Bangladesh.
(3)Institute of Statistical Research and Training, University of Dhaka, Dhaka, 
Bangladesh.

BACKGROUND: Amoxicillin, a semisynthetic penicillin antibiotic, is widely 
prescribed in Bangladesh due to its extended spectrum and its rapid and 
extensive oral absorption with good tolerability. Although a number of generic 
oral formulations of amoxicillin are available in Bangladesh, a study of the 
bioequivalence and pharmacokinetic properties of these formulations has not yet 
been conducted in a Bangladeshi population.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to assess the pharmacokinetic properties 
and bioequivalence of 2 formulations of amoxicillin 500-mg capsules (test, 
SK-mox(®); reference, Amoxil-Bencard(®)) using serum data.
METHODS: This single-dose, randomized, open-label, 2-period crossover study was 
conducted in healthy male subjects in compliance with the Declaration of 
Helsinki and International Conference on Harmonisation guidelines. Subjects were 
assigned to receive the test or the reference drug as a single-dose, 500-mg 
capsule under fasting conditions after a 1-week washout period. After oral 
administration, blood samples were collected and analyzed for amoxicillin 
concentration using a validated high-performance liquid chromatography method. 
The pharmacokinetic parameters were determined using a noncompartmental method. 
The formulations were considered bioequivalent if the natural log-transformed 
ratios of pharmacokinetic parameters were within the predetermined equivalence 
range of 80% to 125%, according to the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) 
requirement.
RESULTS: Twenty-four healthy adult male Bangladeshi volunteers (mean [SD] age, 
26.92 [3.37] years; age range, 23-34 years; mean [SD] body mass index, 23.O9 
[1.58] kg/m(2)) participated in the study. Using serum data, the values obtained 
for the test and reference formulations, respectively, were as follows: Cmax, 
9.85 (2.73) and 10.63 (2.12) μg/mL; Tmax, 1.29 (0.58) and 1.33 (0.49) hours; and 
AUC0-12, 27.09 (7.62) and 28.56 (6.30) μg/mL · h(-1). No period, sequence, or 
formulation effects were observed; however, significant variation was found 
among subjects with regard to AUC0-12 (P < 0.001), AUC0-∞ (P = 0.002), area 
under the moment curve (AUMC) from 0 to 12 hours (P < 0.001), and AUMC0-∞ (P = 
0.017). All CIs for the parameters measured were within the FDA-accepted limits 
of 80% to 125%.
CONCLUSION: The present study suggests that the test 500-mg amoxicillin capsule 
was bioequivalent to the reference 500-mg capsule according to the FDA 
regulatory definition, in this population of healthy adult male Bangladeshi 
volunteers.

DOI: 10.1016/S0011-393X(09)00002-2
PMCID: PMC3969944
PMID: 24692824


236. Front Cell Infect Microbiol. 2017 Aug 2;7:344. doi: 10.3389/fcimb.2017.00344. 
eCollection 2017.

Alloiococcus otitidis Forms Multispecies Biofilm with Haemophilus influenzae: 
Effects on Antibiotic Susceptibility and Growth in Adverse Conditions.

Chan CL(1), Richter K(1), Wormald PJ(1), Psaltis AJ(1), Vreugde S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Adelaide 
UniversityAdelaide, SA, Australia.

Otitis media with effusion (OME) is a biofilm driven disease and commonly 
accepted otopathogens, such as Haemophilus influenzae, Streptococcus pneumonia, 
and Moraxella catarrhalis, have been demonstrated to form polymicrobial biofilms 
within the middle ear cleft. However, Alloiococcus otitidis (A. otitidis), which 
is one of the most commonly found bacteria within middle ear aspirates of 
children with OME, has not been described to form biofilms. The aim of this 
study was to investigate whether A. otitidis can form biofilms and investigate 
the impact on antibiotic susceptibility and survivability in polymicrobial 
biofilms with H. influenzae in vitro. The ability of A. otitidis to form 
single-species and polymicrobial biofilms with H. influenzae was explored. 
Clinical and commercial strains of A. otitidis and H. influenzae were incubated 
in brain heart infusion with and without supplementation. Biofilm was imaged 
using confocal laser scanning microscopy and scanning electron microscopy. 
Quantification of biofilm biomass and viable bacterial number was assessed using 
crystal violet assays and viable cell counting in both optimal growth conditions 
and in adverse growth conditions (depleted media and sub-optimal growth 
temperature). Antimicrobial susceptibility and changes in antibiotic resistance 
of single-species and multi-species co-culture were assessed using a 
microdilution method to assess minimal bactericidal concentration and E-test for 
amoxicillin and ciprofloxacin. A. otitidis formed single-species and 
polymicrobial biofilms with H. influenzae. Additionally, whilst strain 
dependent, combinations of polymicrobial biofilms decreased antimicrobial 
susceptibility, albeit a small magnitude, in both planktonic and polymicrobial 
biofilms. Moreover, A. otitidis promoted H. influenzae survival by increasing 
biofilm production in depleted media and at suboptimal growth temperature. Our 
findings suggest that A. otitidis may play an indirect pathogenic role in otitis 
media by altering H. influenzae antibiotic susceptibility and enhancing growth 
under adverse conditions.

DOI: 10.3389/fcimb.2017.00344
PMCID: PMC5539592
PMID: 28824879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Evid Based Dent. 2019 Dec;20(4):121-122. doi: 10.1038/s41432-019-0061-2.

The clinical benefit of adjunctive antibiotics alongside non-surgical 
periodontal therapy with respect to periodontopathogenic bacteria?

Shelswell J(1).

Author information:
(1)Restorative Dentistry, Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, UK.

Comment on
    J Clin Periodontol. 2019 Oct;46(10):999-1012. doi: 10.1111/jcpe.13164.

Data sources The following electronic databases were searched with no language 
restrictions: MEDLINE, EMBASE and Cochrane library. Reference lists of included 
studies were searched, alongside the Open Grey database and hand searches in 
Journal of Dental Research, Journal of Periodontology, Journal of Clinical 
Periodontology and Journal of Periodontal Research. The editor of each journal 
was contacted to enquire about relevant accepted and forthcoming articles.Study 
selection Two independent reviewers screened for randomised controlled trials 
(RCTs) with a follow-up of at least six months. The main outcome was the change 
in periodontal pocket depths (PPD) and clinical attachment level (CAL) six 
months after treatment, where patients were divided according to adjunctive 
treatment (antimicrobial vs placebo) as well as the pre-treatment detection of 
periodontopathogenic bacteria.Data extraction and synthesis Data was extracted 
from all selected papers using a standardised form, including treatment methods, 
antimicrobial regime and bacterial detection methods. The Cochrane 
Collaborations tool was used to assess risk of bias. The weighted mean 
difference (WMD) of treatment effects between bacterial detection groups was 
obtained and pooled. A two-stage, fixed-effects meta-analysis was performed, and 
statistical heterogeneity was described using the Q-statistic and I2 
index.Results Following the screening of 643 papers and author contact, five 
placebo-controlled studies were included in the systematic review. All had a low 
risk of bias. They varied in patient sample sizes, periodontal diagnoses, 
subgingival debridement protocols, antimicrobial regimes, as well as baseline 
microbial analysis methods. The meta-analysis of four studies, using amoxicillin 
and metronidazole as adjuncts, revealed a significant increase in the reduction 
of PPDs compared to placebo. It also showed no significant difference in the 
clinical effect on PPDs ≥5 mm when prescribing adjunctive amoxicillin and 
metronidazole based on the pre-treatment detection of A. actinomycetemcomitans 
(WMD = 1.16, 95% CI [-5.37, 7.68], I2 = 37.8%).Conclusions Although data on 
baseline periodontopathogenic bacteria was limited to A. actinomycetemcomitans, 
this systematic review suggests that there is not enough evidence to support the 
use of pre-treatment analysis of subgingival bacteria as a criterion for 
prescribing adjunctive antibiotics.

DOI: 10.1038/s41432-019-0061-2
PMID: 31863050 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Allergol Immunopathol (Madr). 2016 Jan-Feb;44(1):83-95. doi: 
10.1016/j.aller.2015.02.004. Epub 2015 Jun 15.

Severe delayed skin reactions related to drugs in the paediatric age group: A 
review of the subject by way of three cases (Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic 
epidermal necrolysis and DRESS).

Belver MT(1), Michavila A(2), Bobolea I(3), Feito M(4), Bellón T(5), Quirce 
S(6).

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Alergia, Hospital Universitario de La Princesa, Instituto de 
Investigación Sanitaria (IP), Madrid, Spain.
(2)Sección de Alergia Pediátrica, Hospital General de Castellón, Castellon, 
Spain. Electronic address: amichavila@gmail.com.
(3)Servicio de Alergia, Hospital Universitario Doce de Octubre, Madrid, Spain.
(4)Servicio de Dermatología, Hospital Universitario La Paz, IdiPaz, Madrid, 
Spain.
(5)Unidad de Investigación FIB, Hospital Universitario La Paz, Madrid, Spain.
(6)Servicio de Alergia, Hospital Universitario La Paz, IdiPaz, Madrid, Spain.

Severe delayed drug-induced skin reactions in children are not common but 
potentially serious. This article describes aspects concerning the etiology, 
pathogenesis and clinical manifestations of these processes; it presents three 
paediatric cases, namely STS (Steven Johnson Syndrome), TEN (toxic epidermal 
necrolysis), probably related to amoxicillin/clavulanate and ibuprofen and DRESS 
(a drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms) secondary to 
phenytoin; and in relation to them, the diagnosis and the treatment of these 
processes are discussed and reviewed. The AGEP (acute generalised exanthematous 
pustulosis) is also reviewed. The aetiological diagnosis of severe non-immediate 
reactions is difficult, and the value of current allergological testing is not 
well defined in these cases. Diagnosis is based on clinical history, the 
empirical risk of drugs to trigger SJS/TEN or DRESS, and the in vivo and in 
vitro testing of the suspect drug. Skin biopsy confirms that the clinical 
diagnosis and delayed hypersensitivity tests, especially the patch test and the 
lymphoblastic transformation test (LTT), may be important to confirm the 
aetiological diagnosis, in our cases emphasising the latter. These diseases can 
be life threatening (especially DRESS and TEN) and/or have a high rate of major 
complications or sequelae (SJS/TEN). The three cases described progressed well 
without sequelae. All were treated with corticosteroids, which is the most 
currently accepted treatment although the effect has not been clearly 
demonstrated.

Copyright © 2015 SEICAP. Published by Elsevier Espana. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aller.2015.02.004
PMID: 26089185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. BMC Chem. 2022 Feb 21;16(1):5. doi: 10.1186/s13065-022-00797-y.

Development and validation of liquid chromatography method for simultaneous 
determination of multiclass seven antibiotic residues in chicken tissues.

Lakew A(1)(2), Assefa T(1), Woldeyohannes M(1), Megersa N(2), Chandravanshi 
BS(3).

Author information:
(1)Ethiopian Public Health Institute, P. O. Box 1242/5654, Addis Ababa, 
Ethiopia.
(2)Department of Chemistry, College of Natural and Computational Sciences, Addis 
Ababa University, P. O. Box 1176, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
(3)Department of Chemistry, College of Natural and Computational Sciences, Addis 
Ababa University, P. O. Box 1176, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. bscv2006@yahoo.com.

BACKGROUND: Antibiotics are routinely used on poultry for therapy and prevention 
of diseases and to enhance animal growth. The objective of this study was to 
develop and validate a sensitive and reliable liquid chromatography with UV 
detection (LC-UV) method for the simultaneous determination of seven multiclass 
antibiotic residues (amoxicillin, ampicillin, penicillin, sulfamethoxazole, 
gentamicin, ciprofloxacin, and erythromycin) in chicken tissues.
METHODS: The liquid chromatography method with UV detection was optimized for 
complete separation of the seven selected antibiotic compounds with reversed 
phase and isocratic elution using Hypersil BDS-C18 (3 µm, 100 mm × 4 mm) column. 
The mobile phase consisted a ratio of 0.05 M Na2HPO4, acetonitrile and methanol 
(70:10:20), at UV absorption wavelength of 230 nm. The column thermostat was set 
at 40 °C, the mobile phase flow rate was 1 mL min-1, and the injection volume 
was 20 μL.
RESULTS: All the seven standard compounds were eluted within 14 min. The results 
for: linearity, precision, sensitivity, accuracy, specificity, decision limit 
(CCα), detection capability (CCβ), suitability and method robustness were 
validated according to the criteria of Commission Decision 2002/657/EC 
guidelines. Calibration plot correlation coefficients ranged from 0.9983 to 
0.9998 and the percent relative standard deviations for repeated analysis were 
below 5% indicating acceptable method precision. The limits of detection (LODs) 
and quantification (LOQs) ranged from 0.098-0.255 μg kg-1 to 
0.297-0.574 μg kg-1, respectively. The accuracy study yielded recoveries in the 
ranges 98.1-107% for the pure compounds and 94.0-102% for the spiked drug free 
chicken tissue samples.
CONCLUSIONS: The method was found to be appropriate for simultaneous 
determination of five different classes of seven antibiotic residues in chicken 
tissues. Furthermore, this is the first instance for the simultaneous 
determination of seven multiclass, multi-residues analysis using LC-UV from 
chicken tissue samples. This is a cost-effective and alternative method with 
simple instrumentation approach for laboratories that lack highly specialized 
state-of-the-art instrumentation.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13065-022-00797-y
PMCID: PMC8862290
PMID: 35189941

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


240. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2022 Oct;37(10):1911-1918. doi: 10.1111/jgh.15939. Epub 
2022 Jul 19.

7-day versus 14-day tegoprazan-based triple therapy to treat Helicobacter pylori 
infection: Real-world evidence.

Jung YS(1), Kim S(2), Kim HY(2), Noh SJ(3), Park JH(1), Park CH(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Internal Medicine, Kangbuk 
Samsung Hospital, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of 
Korea.
(2)Preventive Healthcare Center, Kangbuk Samsung Hospital, Sungkyunkwan 
University School of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, Hanyang University Guri Hospital, Hanyang 
University College of Medicine, Guri, Republic of Korea.

BACKGROUND AND AIM: Potassium-competitive acid blockers (P-CABs) can be used to 
eradicate Helicobacter pylori infection. We aimed to evaluate the impact of 
treatment duration (7 vs 14 days) on successful H. pylori eradication with 
P-CAB-based triple therapy in Korea, where clarithromycin resistance rate is 
high.
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed the data of patients who received 
first-line treatment for H. pylori infection with tegoprazan-based triple 
therapy (50 mg tegoprazan + 1000 mg amoxicillin + 500 mg clarithromycin twice 
daily for 1 or 2 weeks). The primary endpoint was the eradication rate in 
intention-to-treat (ITT) analysis.
RESULTS: Of the 948 patients included in the study, 435 and 513 received 7-day 
and 14-day tegoprazan-based triple therapy, respectively. The eradication rate 
was higher in the 14-day therapy group than in the 7-day therapy group (ITT, 
63.9%; 95% confidence interval [CI], 59.3-68.3%] vs 78.6% [95% CI, 74.9-81.9%], 
respectively, P < 0.001; per-protocol, 70.5% [95% CI, 65.8-74.8%] vs 85.1% 
[81.7-88.1%], respectively, P < 0.001). Overall adverse event rates did not 
differ between the two groups. Although six patients in the 14-day treatment 
group discontinued the prescribed medications due to adverse events, four of 
them (67%) discontinued the medication within 4 days.
CONCLUSIONS: The 14-day tegoprazan-based triple therapy showed a superior 
eradication rate and acceptable adverse events compared with the 7-day 
tegoprazan-based triple therapy. A 14-day treatment regimen may be required when 
H. pylori infection is treated with tegoprazan-based triple therapy in regions 
with high clarithromycin resistance.

© 2022 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and John Wiley & 
Sons Australia, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jgh.15939
PMID: 35816283 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


241. Curr Opin Pediatr. 1994 Apr;6(2):225-31. doi: 10.1097/00008480-199404000-00018.

Child abuse, sudden infant death syndrome, infectious disease, and vaccinations.

Walker A(1), Chernoff R, Joffe A, Wilson ME.

Author information:
(1)Johns Hopkins University, School of Medicine, Division of General Pediatrics, 
Baltimore, MD 21205.

Clinicians all too often face the difficult dilemma of deciding whether a bone 
fracture in a young child was intentional. A structured expert consensus process 
suggests that all rib fractures; midshaft or metaphyseal fractures of the 
humerus; and fractures of the radius, ulna, tibia, or fibula in children younger 
than 1 year of age are highly likely to have been caused by abuse. Abused 
children are more likely to have negative social relationships with other 
children than their school-aged peers. Research on the causes of sudden infant 
death syndrome is still confounded by the likelihood that some deaths for which 
the label was misapplied are included in many studies; however, the presence of 
smokers in the household in the postnatal period appears to be yet another 
factor associated with increased risk. Congenital syphilis is on the rise. 
Detection of infants who have been infected is incomplete. Lack of prenatal care 
is strongly associated with infection. Cord serology is not sensitive enough to 
detect all possible cases. Testing of both maternal and neonatal sera results in 
detection of more infants at risk. Current tests still result in the treatment 
of some infants who are not themselves infected. Amoxicillin clavulante given 
twice daily rather then thrice, cefixime given once a day, and a single 
intramuscular dose of ceftriaxone have all shown acceptable--though not 
exceptional--cure rates for otitis media. Price is a consideration. Fewer 
courses of antibiotics would be necessary if more infants were breastfed. 
Exclusively breastfeeding to at least 4 months cuts the number of bouts of 
otitis media almost in half.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1097/00008480-199404000-00018
PMID: 8032405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Gut. 2014 Feb;63(2):244-9. doi: 10.1136/gutjnl-2013-304820. Epub 2013 May 11.

Randomised clinical trial comparing sequential and concomitant therapies for 
Helicobacter pylori eradication in routine clinical practice.

McNicholl AG(1), Marin AC, Molina-Infante J, Castro M, Barrio J, Ducons J, 
Calvet X, de la Coba C, Montoro M, Bory F, Perez-Aisa A, Forné M, Gisbert JP; 
Participant Centres.

Collaborators: Ramas M, Millán R, Aranguren P, García-Iglesias P, Belloc B, 
Bessa X, Sainz E, Gisbert JL, Lamas E, Figuerola A, Alvarez C, Marcos ES, Moreno 
MI, Abad-Santos F.

Author information:
(1)Digestive Services, Hospital Universitario de La Princesa and Instituto de 
Investigación Sanitaria Princesa (IP), , Madrid, Spain.

Comment in
    Med Monatsschr Pharm. 2014 Feb;37(2):78-9.

OBJECTIVES: No trial has compared non-bismuth quadruple 'sequential' and 
'concomitant' regimens in settings with increasing clarithromycin rates. The 
study aims to compare the effectiveness and safety of these therapies for 
Helicobacter pylori treatment.
DESIGN: Prospective randomised clinical trial in 11 Spanish hospitals. Patients 
naïve to eradication therapy with non-investigated/functional dyspepsia or 
peptic ulcer disease were included. Randomised (1:1) to sequential (omeprazole 
(20 mg/12 h) and amoxicillin (1 g/12 h) for 5 days, followed by 5 days of 
omeprazole (20 mg/12 h), clarithromycin (500 mg/12 h) and metronidazole (500 
mg/12 h)), or concomitant treatment (same drugs taken concomitantly for 10 
days). Eradication was confirmed with (13)C-urea breath test or histology 4 
weeks after treatment. Adverse events (AEs) and compliance were evaluated with 
questionnaires and residual medication count.
RESULTS: 338 consecutive patients were randomised. Mean age was 47 years, 60% 
were women, 22% smokers and 20% had peptic ulcer. Concomitant and sequential 
eradication rates were, respectively, 87% vs 81% by intention-to-treat (p=0.15) 
and 91% vs 86% (p=0.131) per protocol. Respective compliances were 83% vs 82%. 
Treatment-emergent AEs were reported in 59% of patients (no differences found 
between treatments). AEs were mostly mild (60%), and average length was 6.1 
days, causing discontinuation only in 12 patients. Multivariate analysis: 
'concomitant' treatment showed an OR of 1.5 towards better eradication rate in a 
borderline significance CI (95% CI 0.9 to 2.8).
CONCLUSIONS: Concomitant therapy led to a non-statistically significant 
advantage (5%) over sequential therapy, coming closer to 90% cure rates. Both 
therapies showed an acceptable safety profile. ClincialTrials.gov: NCT01273441.

DOI: 10.1136/gutjnl-2013-304820
PMID: 23665990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. J Dig Dis. 2022 Jul;23(7):365-375. doi: 10.1111/1751-2980.13119. Epub 2022 Aug 
20.

Clinical practice of Helicobacter pylori infection management by 
gastroenterologists in secondary and tertiary hospitals: A stratified sampling 
cross-sectional survey.

Zhang WL(#)(1), Li YY(#)(1), Liu J(1)(2), Wang J(1), Wan M(1), Lin BS(1), Lin 
MJ(1), Ding YM(1), Kong QZ(1), Wang ST(1), Duan M(1), Han ZX(1), Ji R(1)(2)(3), 
Zuo XL(1)(2)(3), Li YQ(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Qilu Hospital, Cheeloo College of Medicine, 
Shandong University, Jinan, Shandong Province, China.
(2)Laboratory of Translational Gastroenterology, Qilu Hospital, Cheeloo College 
of Medicine, Shandong University, Jinan, Shandong Province, China.
(3)Robot Engineering Laboratory for Precise Diagnosis and Therapy of GI Tumor, 
Qilu Hospital of Shandong University, Jinan, Shandong Province, China.
(#)Contributed equally

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the management of Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) 
infection by gastroenterologists from secondary and tertiary hospitals in 
Shandong Province, China, where there is a high prevalence of H. pylori 
infection.
METHODS: A questionnaire-based, stratified sampling survey was conducted from 
June 1 to August 30, 2021. The ratio of secondary to tertiary hospitals was set 
at 2:1. An electronic questionnaire was sent to the gastroenterologists via the 
WeChat platform.
RESULTS: A total of 89.09% (1053/1182) gastroenterologists were included. 
Overall, 34.19% and 60.59% of gastroenterologists recommended screening for and 
treating H. pylori infection in patients without any competing factors. The most 
preferred testing method in secondary and tertiary hospitals was the 13 C-urea 
breath test (53.92% and 80.48%), but the reexamination rate of results close to 
the cut-off value was low (55.10% and 59.48%). Gastroenterologists preferred 
bismuth-containing quadruple therapy (secondary and tertiary hospitals: 96.67% 
and 98.53%), but the antibiotic combination prescribed for patients with 
penicillin allergy was suboptimal in secondary hospitals. The overall 
post-treatment follow-up rate was 64.58%, and gastroenterologists in secondary 
hospitals were more proactive than those in tertiary hospitals (69.41% vs 
60.04%, P = 0.001). Less than 80% of gastroenterologists emphasized the 
importance of post-treatment reexamination to their patients. Only a minority of 
gastroenterologists in secondary and tertiary hospitals (30.79% and 34.36%) 
achieved acceptable eradication rates (exceeding 80%).
CONCLUSIONS: Deficiencies exist in gastroenterologists from secondary and 
tertiary hospitals, and the H. pylori eradication rate is relatively low. 
Training programs for gastroenterologists are warranted to strengthen their 
comprehension of guidelines.

© 2022 Chinese Medical Association Shanghai Branch, Chinese Society of 
Gastroenterology, Renji Hospital Affiliated to Shanghai Jiaotong University 
School of Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1751-2980.13119
PMID: 35880374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. J Int Acad Periodontol. 2004 Oct;6(4 Suppl):143-9.

The microbiological case for adjunctive therapy for periodontitis.

Page RC(1).

Author information:
(1)Regional Clinical Dental Research Center, Health Sciences Bldg., Rm. B-530, 
University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195, USA. roypage@u.washington.edu

That chronic periodontitis is an infectious disease is now firmly established, 
and the primary role of Porphyromonas gingivalis, Tannerella forsythensis and 
Treponema denticola is generally accepted. Treatment by mechanical means such as 
scaling and root planing or surgery generally results in significant clinical 
improvement but may not arrest the progress or recurrence of disease. Several 
studies have shown that the probability of achieving lasting stability as 
measured by the arrest of progressive attachment loss and bone loss by primary 
mechanical therapy is a function, in major part, of whether pathogenic 
microorganisms are still present at local subgingival sites at the completion of 
active therapy. The infecting bacterial species are susceptible to killing by 
several antibiotics including, among others, tetracycline-class drugs, 
amoxicillin and metronidazole as well as by local exposure to chlorhexidine. 
Randomized clinical trials have shown that use of systemically administered 
antibiotics as an adjunct to mechanical therapies significantly enhances 
clinical outcomes and stability. Several slow-release devices that deliver 
anti-microbial drugs directly into periodontal pockets have been developed and 
are now on the market. Use of these devices permits local delivery of 
long-lasting, high concentrations of doxycycline (Atridox) minocycline 
(Arestin), and chlorhexidine (PerioChip) directly into periodontal pockets. 
Although these devices differ with regard to ease of use, concentration of drug 
delivered and length of time high drug concentrations can be maintained, 
randomized clinical trials have shown that their use as an adjunctive treatment 
to scaling and root planing results in a significantly greater reduction of 
periodontal pocket depth and an average increase in clinical periodontal 
attachment level of about 0.8 mm. Gain in clinical attachment is greater in 
deeper pockets than in shallower pockets. Locally delivered adjunctive 
anti-microbial therapy is an effective means to enhance therapeutic outcomes.

PMID: 15536782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Mikrobiyol Bul. 2013 Oct;47(4):603-18. doi: 10.5578/mb.6383.

[Antibiotic resistance patterns of Escherichia coli strains isolated from urine 
cultures in Turkey: a meta-analysis].

[Article in Turkish]

Aykan SB(1), Ciftci IH.

Author information:
(1)Ministry of Health Sakarya University Training and Research Hospital, 
Department of Medical Microbiology Laboratory, Sakarya, Turkey. 
sadiyeberna@hotmail.com.

Escherichia coli is the most frequently isolated microorganism from both 
community-acquired and nosocomial urinary tract infections in Turkey. A large 
number of studies concerning antibiotic susceptibility of E.coli have been 
published from different centers throughout the country. The aim of this study 
was to evaluate the antibiotic resistance patterns of E.coli strains isolated 
from urine cultures by a meta-analysis in published medical literature between 
the years of 1996-2012 in Turkey. The study was planned and conducted in 
accordance with the declaration of PRISMA and describes the methods of 
literature search, the determining criteria for inclusion and evaluation of 
articles, data collection and statistical analysis. To find the published series 
Google Scholar and PubMed international databases were used to access published 
manuscripts evaluated according to the determined criteria for acceptance and 
rejection. For each study, general data and antibiotic resistance rates were 
collected as a common unit. Publications considered as lacking in appropriate 
content was eliminated from the study. Statistical analysis of the data obtained 
were 95% confidence intervals, and p≤ 0.05 value was considered as significant 
difference. A total of 228 articles were found to be published during 1996-2012 
period, while 101 of them were included in the meta-analysis according to the 
eligibility criteria. The analyses indicated that nitrofurantoin and 
piperacillin resistance rates have been decreased, whereas ciprofloxacin, 
cefepime, co-trimoxazole and extended-spectrum beta-lactamase (ESBL) positivity 
rates have been increased during the study period. The increases in the rates of 
ciprofloxacin and cefepime resistance and and ESBL production were 
statistically-significant (p< 0.05). A significant reduction in resistance rates 
for ampicilin, amoxicillin-clavulanate, and amikacin was noted in pediatric 
patients between 2002-2012. Ceftriaxone, imipenem, gentamicin and amikacin 
resistance were not homogenous between the geographical regions, and 
statistically significant differences were observed for amoxicillin-clavulanate, 
cefuroxime and ciprofloxacin resistance rates (p< 0.05). Antibiotic resistance 
rates, except for imipenem, in bacterial strains, isolated from hospitalized 
patients were found significantly higher in strains obtained from outpatients. 
The differences between those groups were significant in terms of ampicilin, 
amoxicillin-clavulanate, cefuroxime, ceftriaxone, trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, 
gentamicin, ciprofloxacin, amikacin and cefepime resistances (p< 0.05). It has 
been noted that antibiotic resistance patterns of E.coli strains isolated from 
urine cultures between 1996-2012 demonstrated significant variability, and many 
studies were based only on laboratory data. The results of this meta-analysis 
demonstrated that the resistance rates in commonly-used antibiotics for 
empirical therapy were high. In conclusion, information obtained by systematic 
evaluation of national data will be valuable for the determination of optimal 
antibiotic regimens and in prevention of unnecessary antibiotic use.

DOI: 10.5578/mb.6383
PMID: 24237429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. J Intern Med. 1994 Nov;236(5):501-5. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2796.1994.tb00836.x.

Do clinicians accept the role of Helicobacter pylori in duodenal ulcer disease: 
a survey of European gastroenterologists and general practitioners.

Christensen AH(1), Logan RP, Noach LA, Gjørup T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Gastroenterology, Hvidovre University Hospital, 
Denmark.

OBJECTIVES: To examine to what extent clinicians in Europe accepted the theory 
of the casual role of Helicobacter pylori (H.pylori) in duodenal ulcer disease 
in the year 1992, and to what extent the theory had influenced their diagnostic 
and therapeutic habits in the management of duodenal ulcer patients at that 
time.
DESIGN: Postal questionnaire.
SETTING: Three European countries: the UK, the Netherlands, and Denmark.
SUBJECTS: Three hundred and three gastroenterologists, 250 general 
practitioners, 83 junior hospital doctors.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Number of doctors believing H. pylori to be a significant 
cause of duodenal ulcer disease, use of diagnostic tests for detection of H. 
pylori and therapeutic regimens for eradicating H. pylori.
RESULTS: Four hundred and forty-two doctors replied. Eighty-four per cent of the 
British doctors, 73% of the Dutch doctors, and 47% of the Danish doctors 
accepted the role of H. pylori in duodenal ulcer disease. The rates were higher 
among gastroenterologists than among general practitioners. Eighty-four per cent 
of the British doctors, 80% of the Dutch doctors, and 48% of the Danish doctors 
used diagnostic tests for H. pylori, most frequently histological examination 
(64%). In patients with duodenal ulcer disease, H. pylori eradication was 
undertaken by 93% of the British doctors, 89% of the Dutch doctors, and 60% of 
the Danish doctors. A triple therapy (a bismuth salt, metronidazole, and either 
amoxicillin or tetracycline) was used by 57% (181/315) of the doctors.
CONCLUSIONS: H.pylori treatment is frequently used in some countries. However, 
the role of H. pylori in duodenal ulcer disease has not been accepted to the 
same extent in different European countries.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2796.1994.tb00836.x
PMID: 7964425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Gynecol Obstet Invest. 1989;27(2):84-7. doi: 10.1159/000293624.

Amoxicillin in the treatment of asymptomatic bacteriuria in pregnancy: a single 
dose of 3 g amoxicillin versus a 4-day course of 3 doses 750 mg amoxicillin.

Gerstner GJ(1), Müller G, Nahler G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Stockerau Hospital, Austria.

A prospective, randomized, controlled comparative clinical trial was carried out 
with the aim of investigating the efficacy and tolerance of two different dosage 
regimens of amoxicillin in the treatment of asymptomatic bacteriuria during 
pregnancy. Patients in group A received a single dose of 3 g amoxicillin, which 
was compared to a 4-day course of 3 X 750 mg amoxicillin tablets taken every 8 h 
(group B). Significant bacteriuria (CFU greater than or equal to 10(5)/ml clean 
catch midstream urine and CFU greater than or equal to 10(4)/ml urine obtained 
by bladder catheterization) was diagnosed using the dip-slide method (Uricult). 
91 pregnant women with a mean gestational age of 25 weeks (14-38) were randomly 
allocated to the two treatment groups. 53 patients were assigned to group A and 
38 patients to group B. The treatment groups were comparable in terms of age and 
duration of pregnancy. Urine culture tests were performed 1 and 4 weeks after 
completion of therapy. The predominant species was Escherichia coli, which was 
isolated in 60-65% of the cases. Bacteriological cure rates at 1 and 4 weeks, 
respectively, were 77 and 74% in group A, and 62 and 62% in group B. These 
differences were statistically not significant. The incidence of side effects 
was 4% in group A and 13% in group B. The results obtained in the present study 
suggest that in the treatment of asymptomatic bacteriuria in pregnancy, a single 
dose of 3 g amoxicillin is as effective and acceptable as a 4-day course. In 
addition, the single-dose regimen offers the advantage of a reduction in total 
dose, lower costs and better patient compliance.

DOI: 10.1159/000293624
PMID: 2659442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Pediatr Infect Dis J. 1994 Aug;13(8):686-90. doi: 
10.1097/00006454-199408000-00002.

Variation in acceptance of common oral antibiotic suspensions.

Dagan R(1), Shvartzman P, Liss Z.

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Infectious Diseases Unit, Soroka University Medical Center, 
Beer-Sheva, Israel.

Comment in
    Pediatr Infect Dis J. 1994 Sep;13(9):838. doi: 
10.1097/00006454-199409000-00025.

Palatability of oral antibiotic suspensions is important and may be a 
substantial factor in determining compliance in young pediatric patients. 
Because no comparative systematic data are available, we undertook the present 
study to assess the acceptance of and compliance with oral antibiotic 
suspensions commonly used in Israel. During a 4-month period lists of children 
receiving oral antibiotic suspensions were obtained from 3 major pediatric 
clinics, and parents were contacted by telephone 10 to 14 days after initiation 
of therapy, at which time information on age, sex, main disease, prescribed 
drugs and duration of treatment was obtained. Information regarding acceptance, 
side effects and compliance was obtained from 11 questions with graded scores. 
In the study 546 children received one of the following drugs: amoxicillin (n = 
222); cefaclor (n - 142); cefuroxime axetil (n = 107); 
trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (n = 75). No major differences in background data 
were noted; more than 50% of each group had acute otitis media. Seventy-three 
percent of the cefaclor group reported acceptance of the drug with "pleasure" or 
"without problems" vs. 60, 55 and 20% for amoxicillin, 
trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole and cefuroxime axetil, respectively, whereas 
"resentment" or "refusal" was reported in 11, 16, 26 and 56%, respectively (P < 
0.0001). Mothers reported to be generally "satisfied" or "extremely satisfied" 
with the drug in 89, 81, 74 and 67% with cefaclor, amoxicillin, 
trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole and cefuroxime axetil, respectively, and 85, 77, 
73 and 67% of the children, respectively, received the drug for the entire 
prescribed course (P < 0.001). Our data demonstrate that marked variations exist 
in acceptance and compliance of oral antibiotic suspensions with 
children.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1097/00006454-199408000-00002
PMID: 7970967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. BMC Gastroenterol. 2020 Jul 10;20(1):218. doi: 10.1186/s12876-020-01370-4.

Rescue therapy with rifabutin regimen for refractory Helicobacter pylori 
infection with dual drug-resistant strains.

Kuo CJ(1)(2), Lin CY(1), Le PH(1), Chang PY(2)(3), Lai CH(2)(4)(5), Lin 
WR(1)(2), Chang ML(1)(2), Hsu JT(2)(6), Cheng HT(2)(7), Tseng CN(8)(9), Lin 
CJ(1)(2), Su MY(2)(7), Hsieh SY(1)(2), Chiu CT(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital 
at Linkou, 5, Fushin Street, Kweishan, Taoyuan, Taiwan, Republic of China, 333.
(2)Chang Gung University, College of Medicine, Taoyuan, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Chang-Gung Memorial Hospital, Taoyuan, 
Taiwan.
(4)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Chang Gung University, Taoyuan, 
Taiwan.
(5)Molecular Infectious Disease Research Center, Department of Pediatrics, Chang 
Gung Memorial Hospital, Linkou, Taiwan.
(6)Department of Surgery, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital at Linkou, Taoyuan, 
Taiwan.
(7)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, New Taipei Municipal TuCheng 
Hospital (Built and Operated by Change Gung Medical Foundation), Taipei, Taiwan.
(8)Department of Cardiothoracic and Vascular Surgery, Chang Gung Memorial 
Hospital, Taoyuan, Taiwan.
(9)Department of Molecular Medicine and Surgery, Karolinska University Hospital, 
Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(10)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital 
at Linkou, 5, Fushin Street, Kweishan, Taoyuan, Taiwan, Republic of China, 333. 
ctchiu@adm.cgmh.org.tw.
(11)Chang Gung University, College of Medicine, Taoyuan, Taiwan. 
ctchiu@adm.cgmh.org.tw.

BACKGROUND: There is no current standard rescue treatment for dual 
drug-resistant strains of Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori). This aim of this 
study was to investigate the efficacy of rifabutin-based triple therapy for 
patients infected with dual drug-resistant strains to clarithromycin and 
levofloxacin.
METHODS: After 2 or 3 H. pylori treatment failures, patients underwent upper 
endoscopy with tissue biopsies. Phenotypic and genotypic resistances were 
determined using agar dilution test and polymerase chain reaction with direct 
sequencing, respectively. Patients infected with dual drug-resistant 
(clarithromycin and levofloxacin) strains and receiving rifabutin-based triple 
therapy (rifabutin 150 mg bid, amoxicillin 1 g bid and esomeprazole 40 mg bid 
for 10 days) were enrolled. Eradication status was determined by 13C-urea breath 
test 4 weeks after treatment completion.
RESULTS: A total of 39 patients infected with dual drug-resistant strains were 
enrolled in this study, with a mean age of 55.9 years. The eradication rate was 
79.5% (31/39) (95% confidence intervals: 54.96% ~ 111.40%). Adverse event was 
reported in 23.1% (9/39) of patients but they were mild and tolerable. In 
univariate analysis, no factor was identified as an independent predictor of 
eradication failure.
CONCLUSIONS: Our current study demonstrated that rifabutin-based triple therapy 
was well tolerated and yielded an acceptable eradication rate for patients 
infected with dual drug-resistant strains of H. pylori.

DOI: 10.1186/s12876-020-01370-4
PMCID: PMC7350721
PMID: 32650737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


250. Eur J Hosp Pharm. 2018 Mar;25(e1):e46-e51. doi: 10.1136/ejhpharm-2017-001307. 
Epub 2017 Nov 1.

Impact of clinical pharmacist intervention on antimicrobial use in a small 
164-bed hospital.

Mas-Morey P(1)(2), Ballesteros-Fernández A(3), Sanmartin-Mestre E(1), Valle 
M(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Hospital Quirón Salud Palmaplanas, Palma de Mallorca, 
Spain.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Therapeutics and Toxicology, Universitat 
Autònomade Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, Hospital Quirón Salud Palmaplanas, Palma de 
Mallorca, Spain.
(4)Pharmacokinetic/Pharmacodynamic Modelling and Simulation, Sant Pau Biomedical 
Research Institute (IIB Sant Pau), Barcelona, Spain.

OBJECTIVES: To study the impact of clinical pharmacist interventions (PIs) on 
antimicrobial prescriptions in terms of physician acceptance rates, clinical 
benefits and antimicrobial use/cost outcomes.
METHODS: This study retrospectively analysed the impact of antimicrobial PIs 
over a 2-year period (October 2012 to October 2014) in a private non-teaching 
164-bed hospital without a formal antimicrobial stewardship programme. Excluded 
from the study were outpatients and patients admitted to the intensive care unit 
or the emergency department. The PIs focused on appropriate indication and 
appropriate dosage; drug adverse events, allergies, intolerance and 
interactions; sequential therapy; therapeutic de-escalation; excessive duration 
of treatment and therapeutic drug monitoring. Carbapenems and linezolid were 
classified as special-vigilance drugs. Amoxicillin-clavulanic, 
piperacillin-tazobactam and vancomycin were classified as preferred drugs. 
Clinical benefits evaluated in accordance with internal guidelines, were 
classified as enhancing appropriate antimicrobial prescription or potentially 
reducing toxicity. Antimicrobial use and expenditure were compared with that of 
the previous 2-year period.
RESULTS: 386 PIs were implemented in 303 patients. The overall acceptance rate 
was 83.4%. The acceptance rate for appropriate prescription PIs was 
significantly lower than for toxicity PIs (73.7% vs 90.9%; p<0.0001). 
Significant reductions in the use of special-vigilance drugs (from 39.9 
(22.2-86.0) to 28.0 (6.0-43.4) defined daily doses (DDD)/1000 patient-days; 
p=0.0003) were seen and increases in the use of piperacillin-tazobactam (from 
13.2 (0-22.9) to 17.2 (6.9-44.8) DDD/1000 patient-days; p=0.007) and of 
cephalosporins (from 123.5 (61.8-196.6) to 149.1 (80.3-228.2) DDD/1000 
patient-days; p=0.027). Overall cost savings were 5.1%.
CONCLUSIONS: PIs on antimicrobial prescriptions may be effective in enhancing 
appropriate use of antimicrobials, reducing their toxicity, reducing the use of 
special-vigilance drugs and reducing overall antimicrobial cost.

DOI: 10.1136/ejhpharm-2017-001307
PMCID: PMC6457161
PMID: 31157066

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


251. J Chromatogr A. 2019 Apr 26;1591:7-14. doi: 10.1016/j.chroma.2018.11.069. Epub 
2018 Nov 26.

Graphene oxide-starch-based micro-solid phase extraction of antibiotic residues 
from milk samples.

Golzari Aqda T(1), Behkami S(1), Raoofi M(1), Bagheri H(2).

Author information:
(1)Environmental and Bio-Analytical Laboratories, Department of Chemistry Sharif 
University of Technology, P.O. Box 11365-9516, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Environmental and Bio-Analytical Laboratories, Department of Chemistry Sharif 
University of Technology, P.O. Box 11365-9516, Tehran, Iran. Electronic address: 
bagheri@sharif.edu.

In this study, a method was described for the extraction of three antibiotic 
residues from cow milk samples using a graphene oxide-starch-based 
nanocomposite. The prepared nanocomposites were employed as an extractive phase 
for micro-solid phase extraction of antibiotics from cow milk samples. The 
extracted antibiotics, i.e. amoxicillin, ampicillin and cloxacillin, were 
subsequently analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography-ultraviolet 
detection (HPLC-UV). Important variables associated with the extraction and 
desorption efficiency were optimized. High extraction efficiencies for the 
selected antibiotics were conveniently achieved using the starch-based 
nanocomposite as the extractive phase. The developed method was validated 
according to the European Commission Decision 2002/657/EC by spiking the 
selected antibiotics to the blank milk samples. The limits of quantitation 
(2.7-5.0 μg kg-1) were calculated for the selected penicillin group in milk 
samples and their quantities are lower than the maximum residue limits (MRLs). 
The obtained results indicate the remarkable efficiency of the graphene 
oxide-starch-based nanocomposite performance toward the selected antibiotics. 
The relative standard deviations of intra and inter-day analysis are less than 
3.3 and 6.1%, respectively. Moreover, trueness of method was successfully 
accomplished via the recovery assays (88-102%) in the fortified blank milk 
samples with three different concentration levels (MRL, 1.5 MRL and 3 MRL μg 
kg-1). In overall, the proposed method was a promising alternative for analysis 
of selected three antibiotics in variety milk samples, due to the effective and 
easy-to-perform method and acceptable relative recovery in the range 83-105%.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chroma.2018.11.069
PMID: 30503697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. J Appl Oral Sci. 2005 Jun;13(2):114-9. doi: 10.1590/s1678-77572005000200004.

Comparative study of rules employed for calculation of pediatric drug dosage.

Elias GP(1), Antoniali C, Mariano RC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics and Social Dentistry, Araçatuba Dental School, São 
Paulo State University, Araçatuba, São Paulo, Brazil.

The present study was conducted to evaluate the utilization of Clark's, 
Salisbury and Penna's rules and the Body Surface Area (BSA) formula for 
calculation of pediatric drug dosage, as well as their reliability and viability 
in the clinical use. These rules are frequently cited in the literature, but 
much controversy still exists with regards to their use. The pediatric drug 
dosage was calculated by utilization of the aforementioned rules and using the 
drugs Paracetamol, Dipyrone, Diclofenac Potassium, Nimesulide, Amoxicillin and 
Erythromycin, widely employed in Pediatric Dentistry. Weight and body surface 
areas were considered of children with ages between 1 and 12 years old as well 
as the dosage for the adult. The pediatric dosages achieved were compared to the 
predetermined dosages in mg kg-1 herein-named standard dosages. The results were 
submitted to the parametric test ANOVA and to the Tukey test (p<0,05). The 
antibiotics and Diclofenac provides acceptable utilization of the rules in 
pediatric dentistry, however for the Dipyrone, the dosages obtained by the rules 
suggest their clinical ineffectiveness. For the Paracetamol, the Penna's rule 
and the BSA formula should not be clinically employed, especially for children 
between 1 and 5 years old, once such dosages were much close to the hepatotoxic 
dosage of the drug. It can be concluded that the use of the rules for safe 
calculation of the pediatric drug dosage is possible and it depends on the used 
drug and age group.

DOI: 10.1590/s1678-77572005000200004
PMID: 20924533


253. World J Gastroenterol. 1997 Sep 15;3(3):194. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v3.i3.194.

Cost-effectiveness study on treatment of duodenal ulcer.

Chen SY(1), Wang JY(1), Jie-Chen(1), Zhang XD(1), Zhang SS(1).

Author information:
(1)Shi-Yao Chen, Ji-Yao Wang, Jie-Chen, Xi-De Zhang, Shan-Shen Zhang, Department 
of Gastroenterology, Zhongshan Hospital, Shanghai Medical University, Shanghai 
200032, China.

AIM: To compare the efficiency of therapy with a 2-week regimen of amoxicillin 
plus metronidazole and six weeks of Tagamet (AMT group) vs the efficacy of 
therapy with 6 wk of omeprazole plus 2 wk of amoxicillin (OA group) for ulcer 
healing, Helicobacter pylori (Hp) eradication, and decreasing the recurrence of 
duodenal ulcers.
METHODS: This cost-effectiveness analysis was based on results shown in a 
randomized controlled trial conducted in 1995 in patients with a duodenal ulcer 
(OA group, 46 patients; AMT group, 43 patients) and treated at class grade III A 
hospitals in Shanghai, China.
RESULTS: The costs of treatment in the AMT group were less than those in the OA 
group for ulcer healing (￥546.25 vs ￥1296.76 per case, P < 0.01), Hp eradication 
(￥702.32 vs ￥1742.53 per case, P < 0.01), and decreasing ulcer recurrence 
(￥640.39 vs 1424.54 per case, P < 0.01). Direct costs comprised the major cost 
involved in treatment of duodenal ulcers. The difference in the cost of treating 
ulcers in the two groups was primarily due to the costs of the different drugs. 
There was no significant difference between the two groups regarding their 
direct non-medical costs and indirect costs.
CONCLUSION: When based on therapeutic effectiveness and financial costs, AMT 
therapy was more cost-efficient than OA therapy. AMT therapy is recommended for 
its low cost, acceptable ulcer healing rates, ability to cure of an Hp 
infection, and especially when treating patients with an ulcer < 1 cm in 
diameter.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v3.i3.194
PMCID: PMC4842892
PMID: 27239151


254. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2009 Jan;53(1):75-80. doi: 10.1128/AAC.00636-08. 
Epub 2008 Oct 27.

Microanalysis of beta-lactam antibiotics and vancomycin in plasma for 
pharmacokinetic studies in neonates.

Ahsman MJ(1), Wildschut ED, Tibboel D, Mathot RA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hospital Pharmacy, Clinical Pharmacology Unit, Erasmus 
University Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. m.ahsman@erasmusmc.nl

Rational dosing of antibiotics in neonates should be based on pharmacokinetic 
(PK) parameters assessed in specific populations. PK studies of neonates are 
hampered by the limited total plasma volume, which restricts the sample volume 
and sampling frequency. Available drug assay methods require large sample 
volumes and are labor-intensive or time-consuming. The objective of this study 
was to develop a rapid ultra-performance liquid chromatographic method with 
tandem mass spectrometry detection for simultaneous quantification of 
amoxicillin, meropenem, cefazolin, cefotaxime, deacetylcefotaxime, ceftriaxone, 
and vancomycin in 50 microl of plasma. Cleanup consisted of protein 
precipitation with cold acetonitrile (1:4) and solvent evaporation before 
reversed-phase chromatographic separation and detection using electrospray 
ionization tandem mass spectrometry. Standard curves were prepared over a large 
dynamic range with adequate limits of quantitation. Intra- and interrun accuracy 
and precision were within 100% +/- 15% and 15%, respectively, with acceptable 
matrix effects. Coefficients of variation for matrix effects and recovery were 
<10% over six batches of plasma. Stability in plasma and aqueous stocks was 
generally sufficient, but stability of meropenem and ceftriaxone in extracts 
could limit autosampler capacity. The instrument run time was approximately 3.50 
min per sample. Method applicability was demonstrated with plasma samples from 
an extracorporeal membrane oxygenation-treated neonate. Different beta-lactam 
antibiotics can be added to this method with additional ion transitions. Using 
ultra-performance liquid chromatography mass spectrometry, this method allows 
simple and reliable quantification of multiple antibiotics in 50 microl of 
plasma for PK studies of neonates.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.00636-08
PMCID: PMC2612158
PMID: 18955527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Ugeskr Laeger. 2010 Dec 13;172(50):3468-70.

[Children prefer bottled amoxicillin].

[Article in Danish]

Pottegård A(1), Hallas J.

Author information:
(1)Afdeling for Klinisk Farmakologi, Syddansk Universitet, 5000 Odense C, 
Denmark.

INTRODUCTION: We wanted to test whether we, by using data on thousands of 
prescriptions, could answer a prosaic yet very timely question: Which penicillin 
is most widely accepted?
MATERIAL AND METHODS: By use of the Odense PharmacoEpidemiological Database 
(OPED) we extracted data on all penicillin prescriptions issued to children in 
the Region of Southern Denmark in 2009. We calculated the rate of early switch, 
defined by redeeming a new penicillin prescription within three days. Such a 
switch was believed to reflect taste-related therapeutic failure.
RESULTS: We analysed 253,018 penicillin prescriptions issued to 90,054 children. 
Among the three analysed penicillin brands, Primcillin (phenoxymethylpenicillin 
mixture), Imacillin (amoxicillin mixture) and Flemoxin (amoxicillin soluble 
tablets), we found 2,599 early switches. The relative risk of switch for 
Primcillin and Flemoxin using Imacillin as reference was 14.7 and 3.3.
CONCLUSION: Phenoxymethylpenicillin is less accepted. Children prefer bottled 
amoxicillin.

PMID: 21156107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Middle East J Dig Dis. 2013 Apr;5(2):81-5.

Eradication Rate of Helicobacter pylori using a Two-week Quadruple Therapy: A 
Report from Southern Iran.

Masoodi M(1), Panahian M(2), Rezadoost A(2), Heidari A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease Research 
Center (GILDRC), Digestive Disease Research Institute (DDRI), Colorectal 
Research Center, Rasool Akram Hospital, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran ; Tropical and Infectious Disease Research Center, Hormozgan 
University of Medical Sciences, Bandar Abbas, Iran.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease Research 
Center (GILDRC), Digestive Disease Research Institute (DDRI), Colorectal 
Research Center, Rasool Akram Hospital, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.
(3)Tropical and Infectious Disease Research Center, Hormozgan University of 
Medical Sciences, Bandar Abbas, Iran.

BACKGROUND: The use of quadruple therapy for Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) 
eradication is a highly efficacious, gold standard regimen. However, according 
to a number of studies, this regimen has numerous compliance problems and 
adverse effects. In the current study we have evaluated the H. pylori 
eradication rate following a quadruple therapy that included omeprazole, bismuth 
subcitrate, amoxicillin, and metronidazole in Hormozgan, the most southern 
province in Iran. Hormozgan Province has high rates of H. pylori infection and 
its related disorders.
METHODS: A total of 100 patients diagnosed with dyspepsia and H. pylori 
infection as documented by the (13)C-urea breath test (UBT) or rapid urease test 
(RUT) were treated with the following quadruple regimen: bismuth subcitrate (120 
mg, 2 tablets/q12h), amoxicillin (500 mg/q8h), metronidazole (250 mg/q8h) and 
omeprazole (20 mg/q12h) for a two-week period. Our primary efficacy outcome was 
H. pylori eradication as established by a negative UBT at least four weeks after 
the end of treatment.
RESULTS: Eradication rates were 79%.and 82.3%, respectively, based on the 
intention-to-treat and per-protocol analyses. Quadruple therapy had a similar 
effect in women (81%) and men (83.3%) for the eradication of H. pylori, which 
was not statistically significant. H. pylori eradication rates according to age 
groups were: 16-20 years (100%), 21-40 years (81%), and 41-60 years (77.8%; 
p=0.001). There was no significant difference in H. pylori eradication rate 
between genders in those less than 20 years of age and the middle age group. 
However in the older group the eradication rate was significantly higher in 
women (100%) compared to men (66.6%).
CONCLUSION: A two-week quadruple therapy that includes omeprazole, bismuth 
subcitrate, amoxicillin and metronidazole is a highly effective treatment for H. 
pylori infection. This treatment has an acceptable eradication rate in Southern 
Iran. The eradication rate appears to be lower in older men compared with 
younger men or in women.

PMCID: PMC3990146
PMID: 24829674


257. Vet J. 2011 Feb;187(2):234-8. doi: 10.1016/j.tvjl.2009.12.010. Epub 2010 Feb 2.

Sensitivity to antibiotics of Arcanobacterium pyogenes and Escherichia coli from 
the uteri of cows with metritis/endometritis.

Malinowski E(1), Lassa H, Markiewicz H, Kaptur M, Nadolny M, Niewitecki W, 
Ziętara J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathophysiology of Reproduction and Mammary Gland, National 
Veterinary Research Institute, Powstańców Wlkp. 10, 85-090 Bydgoszcz, Poland. 
vetri@logonet.com.pl

The aim of the study was to determine the in vitro sensitivity of 161 
Arcanobacterium pyogenes strains and 99 Escherichia coli strains isolated from 
the uteri of 312 cows with metritis/endometritis. Animals with pathological 
discharges were clinically diagnosed per rectum and per vaginum, and then swabs 
from the lumen of the uterus were aseptically collected. Bacteriological 
examination of swabs was according to commonly accepted procedures with the 
additional use of API tests. Sensitivity to antibiotics was tested by the disk 
diffusion method and performed in Mueller-Hinton agar. Arc. pyogenes strains 
were the most sensitive to amoxicillin/clavulanic acid (Amc) (97.3%), bacitracin 
(96.7%), ceftiofur (95.8%) and cephapirin (77.5%). E. coli strains were the most 
sensitive to norfloxacin (98.1%), marbofloxacin (95.8%), gentamycin (88%), Amc 
(80.7%) and ceftiofur (73.1%). Arc. pyogenes and E. coli were most resistant to 
oxytetracycline (63.7% and 31%, respectively).

Copyright © 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tvjl.2009.12.010
PMID: 20129803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. J Environ Manage. 2018 Oct 15;224:315-326. doi: 10.1016/j.jenvman.2018.07.072. 
Epub 2018 Jul 23.

Implementation of continuously electro-generated Fe(3)O(4) nanoparticles for 
activation of persulfate to decompose amoxicillin antibiotic in aquatic media: 
UV(254) and ultrasound intensification.

Sepyani F(1), Darvishi Cheshmeh Soltani R(2), Jorfi S(3), Godini H(4), Safari 
M(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Health Engineering, School of Health, Arak 
University of Medical Sciences, Arak, Iran.
(2)Department of Environmental Health Engineering, School of Health, Arak 
University of Medical Sciences, Arak, Iran. Electronic address: 
rezadarvish86@yahoo.com.
(3)Environmental Technologies Research Center, Ahvaz Jundishapur University of 
Medical Sciences, Ahvaz, Iran.
(4)Department of Environmental Health Engineering, School of Health, Alborz 
University of Medical Sciences, Karaj, Iran.
(5)Environmental Health Research Center, Research Institute for Health 
Development, Kurdistan University of Medical Sciences, Sanandaj, Iran.

In the present investigation, the treatment of amoxicillin (AMX)-polluted water 
by the activated persulfate (PS) was considered. As a novel research, 
continuously electro-generated magnetite (Fe3O4) nanoparticles (CEMNPs) were 
utilized as the activator of PS in an electrochemical medium. The PS/CEMNPs 
displayed a remarkable enhancement in the decomposition of AMX molecules up to 
72.6% compared with lonely PS (24.8%) and CEMNPs (13.4%). On the basis of 
pseudo-first order reaction rate constants, the synergy percent of about 70% was 
achieved due to the combination of PS with CEMNPs. The adverse influence of free 
radical-scavenging compounds on the efficiency of the PS/CEMNPs process was in 
the following order: carbonate < chloride < tert-butyl alcohol < ethanol. 
Overall, these results proved the main role of free radical species in degrading 
AMX. The implementation of ultrasound (US) enhanced the performance of the 
PS/CEMNPs process. Nevertheless, the highest degradation efficiency of about 94% 
was achieved when UV254 lamp was joined the PS/CEMNPs system. Under UV254 and US 
irradiation, the results showed significant potential of the PS/CEMNPs process 
for degrading AMX antibiotic and generating low toxic effluent based on the 
activated sludge inhibition test. However, more time is needed to achieve the 
acceptable mineralization.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jenvman.2018.07.072
PMID: 30056351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Aust Vet J. 2024 Jul;102(7):362-368. doi: 10.1111/avj.13333. Epub 2024 Apr 24.

Antimicrobial susceptibility patterns of aerobic bacteria isolated from canine 
urinary samples in South East Queensland, 2013 to 2018.

Mack C(1), Gibson JS(1), Meler E(1), Woldeyohannes S(1), Yuen N(1), Herndon 
A(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Veterinary Science, University of Queensland, Gatton, Queensland, 
Australia.

Urinary tract infections are a common diagnosis in dogs presenting to veterinary 
practice. Veterinarians often treat suspected infections empirically, either in 
the absence of culture and susceptibility testing results or whilst waiting for 
them. This study aimed to identify the bacteria most frequently isolated from 
canine urinary samples and their antimicrobial susceptibility patterns in South 
East Queensland (SEQ) to help guide responsible empirical antimicrobial 
prescription by the veterinary community in this geographical location. 
Cumulative antibiograms were generated from the results of 1284 culture-positive 
urinary samples in SEQ, obtained from a commercial veterinary laboratory over a 
5-year period. Escherichia coli was the most commonly isolated bacterial species 
(43%), followed by Staphylococcus spp. (23%), Proteus spp. (21%) and 
Enterococcus spp. (10%). Of the six most common isolates, 97% had susceptibility 
to at least one low-importance antimicrobial. Susceptibility to the 
low-importance and first-line antimicrobial recommendation, amoxicillin, was 81% 
for E. coli and 24% for Staphylococcus spp. Susceptibility of both E. coli and 
Staphylococcus spp. to medium-importance and commonly recommended empirical 
antimicrobials, trimethoprim sulphonamides and amoxicillin-clavulanic acid was 
≥85% and >92% for high-importance antimicrobials enrofloxacin and ceftiofur. Of 
the E. coli and Staphylococcus spp. isolates, 8.8% and 4%, respectively, were 
considered multidrug resistant. There was no increase in resistance to 
antimicrobials detected over the study period. Susceptibilities suggest low- and 
medium-importance antimicrobials remain acceptable first-line empirical 
treatments. However, this should be continually assessed and updated using local 
surveillance data.

© 2024 The Authors. Australian Veterinary Journal published by John Wiley & Sons 
Australia, Ltd on behalf of Australian Veterinary Association.

DOI: 10.1111/avj.13333
PMID: 38654674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. J Clin Pharm Ther. 2012 Jun;37(3):282-5. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2710.2011.01286.x. 
Epub 2011 Jul 11.

Supplementing vitamins C and E to standard triple therapy for the eradication of 
Helicobacter pylori.

Sezikli M(1), Çetinkaya ZA, Güzelbulut F, Yeşil A, Coşgun S, Kurdaş OÖ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Kocaeli Derince Research and Education 
Hospital, Kocaeli, Turkey.

WHAT IS KNOWN AND OBJECTIVE: Helicobacter pylori eradication rates of currently 
accepted triple therapy regimens vary between geographic locations and do not 
exceed 70-80%. Eradication rates are much lower in locations where uncontrolled 
antibiotic use is common such as Turkey. In the present study, we aimed to test 
whether supplementing vitamins C and E to standard triple therapy, including a 
proton pump inhibitor plus amoxicillin plus clarithromycin, increased the H. 
pylori eradication rate.
METHODS: Two hundred patients infected with H. pylori were randomized into two 
groups in an open-label trial. In group A, patients (n = 160) were given 
standard triple therapy, including lansoprazole 30 mg BID plus amoxicillin 1000 
mg BID plus clarithromycin 500 mg BID for 14 days, plus vitamin C 500 mg BID 
plus vitamin E 200 IU BID for 30 days. In group B, patients (n = 40) were given 
standard triple therapy for 14 days. The success of H. pylori eradication was 
defined as a negative ¹⁴C-urea breath test result, 4-6 weeks after the 
completion of therapy. Comaprisons were by both intention-to-treat (ITT) and 
per-protocol (PP) analysis.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: Two hundred patients (137 women, 63 men) were analysed 
using ITT analysis and 195 patients completed the study. In group A, H. pylori 
eradication was achieved in 132 of the 160 patients (82·5%) included in ITT 
analysis and 132 of the 157 patients (84%) included in PP analysis. In group B, 
H. pylori eradication was achieved in 18 of the 40 patients (45%) included in 
ITT analysis and 18 of the 38 patients (47·4%) included in PP analysis. 
Eradication rates were significantly higher in group A than in group B (P < 
0·005). Eradication rates were not statistically significant between men and 
women in both groups.
WHAT IS NEW AND CONCLUSION: Adding vitamins C and E to standard triple therapy 
increases the eradication rate of H. pylori. Vitamins C and E may increase the 
eradication rate via increasing the effectiveness of the antibiotics by 
decreasing oxidative stress in the gastric mucosa and strengthening the immune 
system.

© 2011 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2710.2011.01286.x
PMID: 21740452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Jpn J Antibiot. 1985 Feb;38(2):359-72.

[Bacteriological and clinical evaluation of BRL 25000 (clavulanic 
acid-amoxicillin) granules in the pediatric field].

[Article in Japanese]

Haruta T, Kuroki S, Okura K, Kobayashi Y.

Bacteriological and clinical evaluations of BRL 25000 (1 part clavulanic acid 
plus 2 parts amoxicillin) granules in the pediatric field have been performed. 
The MICs of BRL 25000 against 25 clinically isolated strains of S. aureus, 40 E. 
coli, and 14 K. pneumoniae were compared with those of AMPC. Against 
beta-lactamase non-producing strains of S. aureus and E. coli, the MICs of both 
drugs were nearly equal, however, against beta-lactamase producing strains of 
these species and K. pneumoniae, BRL 25000 was superior to AMPC. The blood 
levels of AMPC and CVA after single oral administration of approximately 15 
mg/kg of BRL 25000 granules to fasted children were studied in 3 subjects. The 
mean levels of AMPC and CVA peaked about 1 hour after administration at values 
of 11.40 and 5.49 micrograms/ml, respectively, with half-lives of 0.91 and 1.02 
hours, and AUCs of 23.52 and 12.66 hr X micrograms/ml, respectively. The 6-hour 
urinary recovery of AMPC ranged from 30.59% to 52.03% and for CVA from 16.31% to 
45.18%. There was no significant difference between the blood level of AMPC 
following single oral administration of approximately 10 mg/kg AMPC granules and 
that of AMPC following single oral administration of approximately 15 mg/kg BRL 
25000 granules to the same children. Clinical evaluation of BRL 25000 granules 
administered orally 3-4 times a day at total daily doses of between 42.9-52.9 
mg/kg resulted in improvement, judged excellent or good, in all 7 cases of 
tonsillitis and 2 cases of pyelonephritis. In particular, the clinical effect 
was excellent in the case of tonsillitis where a beta-lactamase producing H. 
influenzae was isolated. In the total 11 cases treated, including 2 cases of 
mycoplasmal pneumonia excluded from the clinical evaluation, 1 case of rash and 
eosinophilia was observed. No other adverse reactions or abnormal laboratory 
findings were observed. The taste and flavor of the drug were well accepted by 
the children. It was concluded that BRL 25000 granules are promising new drug 
which should be markedly useful in the treatment of infections in pediatric 
outpatients.

PMID: 3847523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Antibiotics (Basel). 2020 Sep 27;9(10):646. doi: 10.3390/antibiotics9100646.

The Prevalence of Multidrug Resistance of Helicobacter pylori and Its Impact on 
Eradication in Korea from 2017 to 2019: A Single-Center Study.

Park JY(1), Shin TS(2), Kim JH(3), Yoon HJ(1), Kim BJ(1), Kim JG(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Chung-Ang University College of Medicine, 
Seoul 06974, Korea.
(2)MD Healthcare Inc., Seoul 03923, Korea.
(3)Research Institute, Chung-Ang University, Seoul 06974, Korea.

Antimicrobial resistance is one of the major factors determining the efficacy of 
Helicobacter pylori eradication therapy. This study aimed to estimate the recent 
prevalence of multidrug resistance of H. pylori and its impact on eradication in 
Korea. A total of 174 patients were prospectively enrolled at Chung-Ang 
University Hospital from 2017 to 2019. H. pylori strains were isolated from the 
gastric body and antrum. The minimum inhibitory concentrations of antibiotics 
were determined by the serial twofold agar dilution method. Eradication results 
were reviewed and analyzed in connection with antibiotic resistance. The 
prevalence of H. pylori infection was 51.7% (90/174). The culture success rate 
was 77.8% (70/90). The resistance rates for clarithromycin, metronidazole, 
amoxicillin, tetracycline, levofloxacin, and moxifloxacin were 28.6% (20/70), 
27.1% (19/70), 20.0% (14/70), 18.6% (13/70), 42.9% (30/70), and 42.9% (30/70), 
respectively. The multidrug resistance (resistance to two or more classes of 
antimicrobials) rate was 42.9% (30/70). Dual resistance to clarithromycin and 
metronidazole was confirmed in 8.6% (6/70). Eradication with a first-line 
treatment was successful in 75% (36/48), and those who received second-line 
treatment all achieved successful eradication. The rate of multidrug resistance 
is increasing, and standard triple therapy (STT) is no longer an acceptable 
first-line option for H. pylori eradication in Korea.

DOI: 10.3390/antibiotics9100646
PMCID: PMC7601770
PMID: 32992624

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


263. Vet Microbiol. 2024 Aug;295:110157. doi: 10.1016/j.vetmic.2024.110157. Epub 2024 
Jun 18.

An investigation of the transmission of Actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae within 
vertically integrated systems using whole genome sequencing.

Vilaró A(1), Karstensen KT(2), Cavaco LM(2), Angen Ø(2), Solé E(1), Seró I(1), 
Novell E(1), Enrique-Tarancón V(1), Guitart-Matas J(3), Migura-Garcia L(3), 
Fraile L(4).

Author information:
(1)Grup de Sanejament Porcí (GSP), Partida Caparrella 97C, Lleida 25192, Spain.
(2)Department of Bacteria, Parasites, and Fungi, Statens Serum Institut 
(SSI), Copenhagen, Denmark.
(3)Joint Research Unit IRTA-UAB in Animal Health, Animal Health Research Centre 
(CReSA), Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona (UAB), Bellaterra, Barcelona, Spain; 
IRTA, Animal Health Program, Animal Health Research Centre (CReSA), 
Collaborating Centre of the World Organisation for Animal Health for research 
and control of emerging and re-emerging pig diseases in Europe, Universitat 
Autònoma de Barcelona (UAB), Bellaterra, Barcelona, Spain.
(4)Department of Animal Science, ETSEA, Universitat de Lleida-AGROTECNIO-CERCA 
Centre, Lleida 25198, Spain. Electronic address: lorenzo.fraile@udl.cat.

Actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae (APP) causes significant economic losses to the 
swine industry. Antibiotic treatment can be challenging due to its clinical 
urgency and the turnover of antimicrobial susceptibility results from the 
diagnostic laboratory. The aim of this study was to evaluate the vertical 
transmission of APP within integrated systems as a criterion for optimising 
antimicrobial treatment in the field, using whole genome sequencing (WGS). 
Additionally, the genetic variability of Spanish APP isolates has been assessed 
to decipher antimicrobial resistance (AMR) determinants, toxin presence, 
serotype, and phenotype/genotype concordance of AMR. A total of 169 isolates 
from clinical cases of porcine pleuropneumonia with known antimicrobial 
susceptibility profiles were sequenced. Additionally, 48 NCBI assemblies were 
included to perform a phylogenetic analysis. Phylogenetic analysis revealed high 
association between phylogenetic clusters, serotypes, and presence of toxins 
that are associated within vertically integrated systems by its epidemiological 
link. Concordance between presence of AMR determinants (genotype) vs in-vitro 
antimicrobial susceptibility pattern (phenotype) was acceptable for amoxicillin, 
florfenicol, oxytetracycline, and enrofloxacin using epidemiological cut-off 
values (ECOFFs), but low concordance was observed for doxycycline and 
trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (T/S). On the other hand, using CLSI clinical 
breakpoints (CBPs), concordance was acceptable for florfenicol and enrofloxacin 
and not evaluated for doxycycline, oxytetracycline, 
trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (T/S), and amoxicillin because no CBP are 
available for them. Finally, WGS has demonstrated the clonality between isolates 
that shared a common origin (grandmother's farm) and resistance phenotype, 
suggesting vertical transmission of this pathogen and supporting the use of the 
epidemiological approach as a good criterion to optimise the antimicrobial use.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vetmic.2024.110157
PMID: 38917664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest Authors 
declare no conflict of interest


264. J Clin Pharm Ther. 2010 Jun;35(3):279-87. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2710.2009.01082.x.

Study of microbial contamination and dosing accuracy of oral dispensers.

Dockhorn S(1), Feuersenger D, Schuenemann S, Knauf B, Duerr S, 
Schubert-Zsilavecz M, Abdel-Tawab M.

Author information:
(1)B. Braun Melsungen AG, Melsungen, Germany.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: The optimal administration of liquid medications 
requires accurate dose delivery. This is particularly important in the treatment 
of infants and children, as well as elderly people, who are more sensitive to 
dosage errors. Previous studies revealed significant dosage inaccuracies with 
measuring spoons. Oral syringes are therefore generally recommended instead. 
There is no data on the efficacy of standard cleaning techniques, and 
consequently on the degree of microbial contamination associated with the 
repeated use of oral syringes. This study aimed to investigate the level and 
types of microorganisms found in oral dispensers subjected to simulated in-use 
conditions. In addition, the dosing accuracy of the oral dispensers is compared 
with that of measuring spoons supplied and designed for use with specific 
medications.
METHODS: Exadoral 5 mL oral dispensers from B. Braun Melsungen AG (Melsungen, 
Germany) were subjected to simulated in-use conditions and microbial assay. Six 
different liquid medications representing different substance classes were 
included. The test lasted 4-15 days with two to four doses withdrawn according 
to dosage recommendations. Dosing accuracy was assessed using six representative 
amoxicillin suspensions available on the German market after withdrawing 1.25, 
2.5 and 5 mL that correspond to ¼, ½ and full measuring spoons.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: Low counts of Micrococcus luteus, Micrococcus lylae, 
Staphylococcus epidermidis, Staphylococcus chromogenes as well as Bacillus 
species and Candida lusitaniae may contaminate the interior surface of the oral 
dispenser, but the microbial count was below the accepted limit of microbial 
counts permissible for drinking water over the whole test period. Hence, oral 
dispensers may be considered safe, provided that cleaning procedures are 
followed exactly. Moreover, oral dispensers, although not specifically designed 
for the tested medication, showed much higher dosing accuracy in comparison with 
the specifically designed measuring spoons.
CONCLUSION: The present study revealed that oral dispensers are accurate 
measuring devices for the safe administration of liquid medication. Pharmacists 
and physicians should encourage their patients to use oral dispensers routinely 
in practice.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2710.2009.01082.x
PMID: 20831530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Arch Intern Med. 2001 Nov 26;161(21):2538-44. doi: 10.1001/archinte.161.21.2538.

A fresh look at the definition of susceptibility of Streptococcus pneumoniae to 
beta-lactam antibiotics.

Musher DM(1), Bartlett JG, Doern GV.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Veterans Affairs Medical Center, 2002 Holcombe Blvd, 
Houston, TX 77030, USA. Daniel.Musher@med.va.gov

Definitions for susceptibility or resistance of Streptococcus pneumoniae to 
penicillin were not developed until penicillin-resistant pneumococci appeared in 
South Africa in the late 1970s. The definition that was accepted (which still 
remains in use) and later definitions of resistance to most other beta-lactam 
antibiotics were derived from laboratory and clinical data relating to the 
treatment of meningitis, not otitis media, sinusitis, or pneumonia. An 
understanding of the origin of these definitions helps to resolve the apparent 
paradox that infections of the respiratory tract due to seemingly 
beta-lactam-resistant pneumococci may still respond well to standard doses of 
these drugs. A recently sanctioned change in the definition of susceptibility to 
amoxicillin is helpful in eliminating the paradox for this drug, but it may 
create further confusion by implying that, on a microgram basis, amoxicillin is 
substantially more effective than penicillin or third-generation cephalosporins. 
This article examines definitions of susceptibility and resistance of 
pneumococci, highlighting areas that have led to confusion and proposing a new 
way of understanding them.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.161.21.2538
PMID: 11718584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. J Periodontol. 2008 Oct;79(10):1904-12. doi: 10.1902/jop.2008.070670.

Early wound healing following one-stage dental implant placement with and 
without antibiotic prophylaxis: a pilot study.

Khoury SB, Thomas L, Walters JD, Sheridan JF, Leblebicioglu B.

BACKGROUND: One-stage implant placement has clinically acceptable treatment 
outcomes. Among other advantages, it may allow investigation of early wound 
healing. The purpose of this pilot study was to determine whether peri-implant 
crevicular fluid (PICF) can be used to detect early changes around implants 
placed with one-stage surgical protocol following 1 week of healing.
METHODS: Twenty subjects (11 males and nine females; aged 22 to 72 years; two 
smokers) were included. Exclusion criteria were allergies to amoxicillin and 
systemic conditions that may affect healing. Subjects had a healthy periodontium 
and needed a single implant; eight received antibiotic prophylaxis, and 12 
served as controls. Clinical healing was evaluated with plaque and gingival 
indices (PI and GI, respectively). Gingival crevicular fluid (GCF) from the 
surgical site was obtained prior to the surgery, whereas PICF was collected at 
the 1-week visit. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was used to determine 
GCF/PICF interleukin (IL)-1beta and -8 concentrations. Peripheral blood and GCF 
antibiotic levels were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography.
RESULTS: Postoperative PI and GI were slightly increased. Total GCF and PICF 
volumes did not show a significant difference between appointments. There was an 
increase in PICF IL-1beta and -8 levels at 1 week postoperatively. Mean 
amoxicillin serum concentration was 5.1 +/- 2 microg/ml at 1 to 4 hours 
following the initial dose, whereas GCF amoxicillin levels were below the limit 
of detection. Antibiotic prophylaxis had a modest effect on clinical indices (PI 
and GI) and no appreciable effect on biomarkers.
CONCLUSIONS: PICF content can be studied as early as 1 week following one-stage 
implant placement. The results raise doubts regarding the clinical usefulness of 
amoxicillin prophylaxis.

DOI: 10.1902/jop.2008.070670
PMCID: PMC2735441
PMID: 18834245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest 
related to this study.


267. Therap Adv Gastroenterol. 2019 Sep 5;12:1756284819870960. doi: 
10.1177/1756284819870960. eCollection 2019.

Efficacy of dexlansoprazole-based triple therapy for Helicobacter pylori 
infections.

Kuo CJ(1), Chen CW(1), Le PH(1), Hsu JT(2), Lin CY(1), Cheng HT(1), Su MY(1), 
Lin CJ(1), Chiu CT(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, 
Linkou.
(2)Department of General Surgery, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Linkou.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, 
No. 5, Fuxing Street, Guishan Dist., Taoyuan City.

BACKGROUND: Dexlansoprazole has been shown to be efficacious for the treatment 
of gastroesophageal reflux disease. However, there is a paucity of data about 
its efficacy for Helicobacter pylori eradication. The aim of this study was to 
evaluate the efficacy of dexlansoprazole for H. pylori eradication as triple 
therapy in real-world practice.
METHODS: Adult patients with endoscopically proven H. pylori related peptic 
ulcer diseases or gastritis were recruited for this study. The eradication 
status was assessed based on the results of the 13C-urea breath test performed 
4 weeks after treatment. According to the different treatment regimens, the 
patients were allocated to group A: Esomeprazole 40 mg b.i.d. + amoxicillin 1 g 
b.i.d. + clarithromycin 500 mg b.i.d. for 7 days; group B: Esomeprazole 40 mg 
q.d. + amoxicillin 1 g b.i.d. + clarithromycin 500 mg b.i.d. for 7 days, or 
group C: Dexlansoprazole 60 mg q.d. + amoxicillin 1 g b.i.d. + clarithromycin 
500 mg b.i.d. for 7 days.
RESULTS: A total of 215 patients (49% males) were enrolled in this study, with a 
mean age of 55 years. The eradication rates in group A, B, and C were 94.7% 
(71/75), 89.6% (69/77), and 93.7% (59/63) (p = 0.457), respectively. The adverse 
events were similar between the three groups (p = 0.068).
CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that dexlansoprazole-based triple therapy has 
an acceptable eradication rate for H. pylori infection.

DOI: 10.1177/1756284819870960
PMCID: PMC6732863
PMID: 31523277

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement: The author(s) 
received no financial support for the research, authorship, and/or publication 
of this article.


268. Trop Gastroenterol. 2010 Oct-Dec;31(4):303-7.

A randomized trial comparing four Helicobacter pylori eradication regimens: 
standard triple therapy, ciprofloxacin based triple therapy, quadruple and 
sequential therapy.

Aminian K(1), Farsad F, Ghanbari A, Fakhreih S, Hasheminasab SM.

Author information:
(1)Gastrointestinal and Liver Diseases Research Center (GLDRC), Razi Hospital, 
Tehran, Iran. swt_f@yahoo.com

OBJECTIVE: Helicobacter pylori infection is found in at least 80% of people in 
developing countries. This randomized controlled trial was performed to evaluate 
the efficacy of 4 different H. pylori eradication regimens in Iranian patients.
METHODS: We enrolled 428 patients referred to Razi hospital in Rasht city with 
dyspepsia. Patients were randomly assigned to four treatment groups of 107 
patients (A-D). Group A received omeprazole, amoxicillin, metronidazole and 
bismuth, all given twice daily for 2 weeks. Group B received omeprazole, 
amoxicillin and clarithromycin, all given twice daily for 10 days. Group C 
patients were given omeprazole and amoxicillin, both twice daily for two weeks 
and ciprofloxacin twice a day for the first week. Group D received 10 days 
sequential treatment with omeprazole and amoxicillin for 5 days and omeprazole, 
clarithromycin and metronidazole all twice daily for the remaining 5 days. H. 
pylori status was rechecked by stool antigen test 8 weeks after treatment. H. 
pylori eradication rate (both "Intention to Treat" and "per Protocol") and 
adverse effects of the drugs were recorded after 8 weeks.
RESULTS: Eradication rates in group A to D were, 84.1%, 90.7%, 65.4% and 80.4% 
respectively in "Intention to Treat" and 85.7%, 90.7%, 70%, and 81.1% 
respectively in "per Protocol" analyses. Patient compliance was significantly 
lower in Group C, whereas patient compliance in other groups was not 
significantly different.
CONCLUSION: Standard 10 days triple therapy had the highest success (p=0.0001) 
rate in our study while quadruple therapy was the second successful regimen. 
Sequential therapy was not found to be an acceptable treatment option.

PMID: 21568147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. PLoS One. 2020 Apr 14;15(4):e0229248. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0229248. 
eCollection 2020.

Feasibility of implementing the World Health Organization case management 
guideline for possible serious bacterial infection among young infants in Ntcheu 
district, Malawi.

Guenther T(1), Mopiwa G(2), Nsona H(3), Qazi S(4), Makuluni R(5), Fundani CB(5), 
Gomezgani J(6), Mgalula L(7), Chisema M(5), Sadruddin S(8).

Author information:
(1)Unitaid, World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland.
(2)The Joint TB/HIV Global Fund -ActionAid, Lilongwe, Malawi.
(3)IMCI Unit, Ministry of Health, Lilongwe, Malawi.
(4)Department of Maternal Newborn Child and Adolescent Health, World Health 
Organization, Geneva, Switzerland.
(5)District Health Office, Ministry of Health, Ntcheu, Malawi.
(6)Save the Children Malawi, Lilongwe, Malawi.
(7)World Health Organization, Lilongwe, Malawi.
(8)Global Malaria Program, World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Neonatal sepsis is a leading cause of mortality, yet the recommended 
inpatient treatment options are inaccessible to most families in low-income 
settings. In 2015, the World Health Organization released a guideline for 
outpatient treatment of young infants (0-59 days of age) with possible serious 
bacterial infection (PSBI) with simplified antibiotic regimens when referral was 
not feasible. If implemented widely, this guideline could prevent many deaths. 
Our implementation research evaluated the feasibility and acceptability of 
implementing the WHO guideline through the existing health system in Malawi.
METHODS: A prospective cohort study was conducted in 12 first-level health 
facilities in Ntcheu district. Trained health workers identified and treated 
young infants with PSBI signs with injection gentamicin for 2 days and oral 
amoxicillin for 7 days, whereas those with only fast breathing were treated with 
oral amoxicillin for 7 days. Health Surveillance Assistants (HSAs) were trained 
to promote care-seeking and to conduct home visits on day 3 and 6 to assess 
infants under treatment, encourage treatment adherence and remind the caregiver 
to return for facility follow up. Infants receiving outpatient treatment were 
followed up at health facility on day 4 and 8. The primary outcome was 
proportion of outpatient cases completing treatment per protocol.
FINDINGS: A total of 358 infants received outpatient treatment (202 clinical 
severe infection, 156 only fast breathing) from February to September 2017. Of 
these, 92.7% (332/358) met criteria for treatment completion and 88.8% (318/358) 
completed the day 4 follow-up. Twelve (3.4%) young infants clinically failed 
treatment with no reported deaths in those treated at outpatient level. This 
treatment failure rate was lower than those reported for the simplified regimens 
tested in the SATT (8-10%) and AFRINEST (5-8%) equivalency trials. More than 
half of infants (58.1%; 208/358) received HSA follow-up visits on days 3 and 6.
CONCLUSION: Study results demonstrate the feasibility of outpatient treatment 
for sick young infants when referral is not feasible in Malawi, which will 
inform scale-up in other parts of Malawi and countries with similar health 
system constraints.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0229248
PMCID: PMC7156088
PMID: 32287262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that no competing interests 
exist. Some of the authors are currently and/or were previously employed by 
not-for-profit organizations including: Save the Children, World Health 
Organization, and ActionAid. This does not alter our adherence to PLOS ONE 
policies on sharing data and materials.


270. Front Nutr. 2024 Jun 6;11:1275943. doi: 10.3389/fnut.2024.1275943. eCollection 
2024.

Predictors of time to recovery from uncomplicated severe acute malnutrition 
among children in eastern Ethiopia.

Yadeta SK(1), Tadesse T(2), Negese T(3), Haile B(4), Kebede A(5), Motuma A(6), 
Abdurahman D(6), Oumer A(6), Roba KT(6).

Author information:
(1)National Nutrition Program Officer, Nutrition Coordination Office in the 
Ministry of Health, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
(2)Department of Social and Population Health, Yekatit 12 Hospital Medical 
College, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
(3)Monitoring and Evaluation Officer in the Nutrition Coordination Office, 
Ministry of Health, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
(4)Implementation Advisor, Nutrition Coordination Office in the Ministry of 
Health, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
(5)World Food Program, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
(6)School of Public Health, College of Health and Medical Sciences, Haramaya 
University, Harar, Ethiopia.

BACKGROUND: Managing severe acute malnutrition (SAM) involves an outpatient 
therapeutic program (OTP), targeting more than 80% of SAM children where the 
quality of primary healthcare remains poor. Treatment success and recovery from 
SAM remain poor and could be affected by many factors, where such evidence is 
limited in East Hararghe. This study assessed the predictors of time to recovery 
from SAM in eastern Ethiopia.
METHODS: A retrospective cohort study was conducted on 402 records of SAM 
children under 5 years of age enrolled on OTP at 12 health posts retrieved from 
2020 to 2021. We used the Kaplan-Meir estimate along with the p-value of the 
log-rank test and the survival curve to compare the time to recovery across 
categories. A multivariable Cox proportional hazard model was fitted to identify 
predictors of time to recovery from SAM. A p-value below 0.05 was used to 
declare statistical significance.
RESULTS: A total of 402 records were reviewed, and the cure rate from SAM was 
89.6% [95% confidence interval (CI), 87-93]. Moreover, a death rate of 0.7%, a 
default rate of 9.5%, and a non-responder rate of 0.2% were obtained with a 
median length of stay of 7 weeks. The median time to recovery was significantly 
shorter for children from shorter distances from OTP sites with edema, 
amoxicillin, (p < 0.05). Edema at admission [adjusted hazard ratio (AHR) = 1.74; 
95% CI: 1.33-2.29], without diarrhea (AHR = 1.51; 95% CI: 1.18-1.94), taking 
amoxicillin (AHR = 1.55; 95% CI: 1.19-2.02), shorter travel time to the OTP site 
(AHR = 1.44; 95% CI: 1.13-1.85), breastfeeding (AHR = 1.60; 95% CI: 1.27-2.02), 
adequacy of ready-to-use therapeutic food (RUTF) (AHR = 1.22; 95% CI: 
0.90-1.65), and new admission (AHR = 1.62; 95% CI: 0.84-3.10) were important 
predictors of recovery from SAM.
CONCLUSION: Recovery from SAM was found to be acceptable in comparison with the 
Sphere Standards and is predicted by edema, diarrhea, distance from the OTP 
site, amoxicillin, and RUTF adequacy. These allow for focused interventions that 
address the identified factors for better recovery from SAM.

Copyright © 2024 Yadeta, Tadesse, Negese, Haile, Kebede, Motuma, Abdurahman, 
Oumer and Roba.

DOI: 10.3389/fnut.2024.1275943
PMCID: PMC11187269
PMID: 38903630

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


271. PLoS One. 2021 Feb 5;16(2):e0244192. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0244192. 
eCollection 2021.

Innovative approach for potential scale-up to jump-start simplified management 
of sick young infants with possible serious bacterial infection when a referral 
is not feasible: Findings from implementation research.

Leul A(1), Hailu T(1), Abraham L(1), Bayray A(2), Terefe W(2), Godefay H(3), 
Fantaye M(4), Qazi SA(5), Aboubaker S(5), Nisar YB(6), Bahl R(6), Tekle E(7), 
Mulugeta A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics and Child Health, School of Medicine, Mekelle 
University, Mekelle, Ethiopia.
(2)School of Public Health, College of Health Sciences, Mekelle University, 
Mekelle, Ethiopia.
(3)Tigray Health Bureau, Mekelle, Ethiopia.
(4)Alamata Hospital, Alamata, Tigray, Ethiopia.
(5)Department of Maternal, Newborn, Child and Adolescent Health, World Health 
Organization, Geneva, Switzerland.
(6)Department of Maternal, Newborn, Child and Adolescent Health and Ageing, 
World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland.
(7)Federal Ministry of Health, Maternal and Child Health Directorate, Addis 
Ababa, Ethiopia.

BACKGROUND: Neonatal bacterial infections are a common cause of death, which can 
be managed well with inpatient treatment. Unfortunately, many families in low 
resource settings do not accept referral to a hospital. The World Health 
Organization (WHO) developed a guideline for management of young infants up to 2 
months of age with possible serious bacterial infection (PSBI) when referral is 
not feasible. Government of Ethiopia with WHO evaluated the feasibility of 
implementing this guideline to increase coverage of treatment.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to implement a simplified antibiotic 
regimen (2 days gentamicin injection and 7 days oral amoxicillin) for management 
of sick young infants with PSBI in a programme setting when referral was not 
feasible to identify at least 80% of PSBI cases, achieve an overall adequate 
treatment coverage of at least 80% and document the challenges and opportunities 
for implementation at the community level in two districts in Tigray, Ethiopia.
METHODS: Using implementation research, we applied the PSBI guideline in a 
programme setting from January 2016 to August 2017 in Raya Alamata and Raya 
Azebo Woredas (districts) in Southern Tigray, Ethiopia with a population of 
260884. Policy dialogue was held with decision-makers, programme implementers 
and stakeholders at federal, regional and district levels, and a Technical 
Support Unit (TSU) was established. Health Extension Workers (HEWs) working at 
the health posts and supervisors working at the health centres were trained in 
WHO guideline to manage sick young infants when referral was not feasible. 
Communities were sensitized towards appropriate home care.
RESULTS: We identified 854 young infants with any sign of PSBI in the study 
population of 7857 live births. The expected live births during the study period 
were 9821. Assuming 10% of neonates will have any sign of PSBI within the first 
2 months of life (n = 982), the coverage of appropriate treatment of PSBI cases 
in our study area was 87% (854/982). Of the 854 sick young infants, 333 (39%) 
were taken directly to a hospital and 521 (61%) were identified by HEW at health 
posts. Of the 521 young infants, 27 (5.2%) had signs of critical illness, 181 
(34.7%) had signs of clinical severe infection, whereas 313 (60.1%) young 
infants 7-59 days of age had only fast breathing pneumonia. All young infants 
with critical illness accepted referral to a hospital, while 117/181 (64.6%) 
infants with clinical severe infection accepted referral. Families of 64 (35.3%) 
infants with clinical severe infection refused referral and were treated at the 
health post with injectable gentamicin for 2 days plus oral amoxicillin for 7 
days. All 64 completed recommended gentamicin doses and 63/64 (98%) completed 
recommended amoxicillin doses. Of 313 young infants, 7-59 days with pneumonia 
who were treated by the HEWs without referral with oral amoxicillin for 7 days, 
310 (99%) received all 14 doses. No deaths were reported among those treated on 
an outpatient basis at health posts. But 35/477 (7%) deaths occurred among young 
infants treated at hospital.
CONCLUSIONS: When referral is not feasible, young infants with PSBI can be 
managed appropriately at health posts by HEWs in the existing health system in 
Ethiopia with high coverage, low treatment failure and a low case fatality rate. 
Moreover, fast breathing pneumonia in infants 7-59 days of age can be 
successfully treated at the health post without referral. Relatively higher 
mortality in sick young infants at the referral level health facilities warrants 
further investigation.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0244192
PMCID: PMC7864440
PMID: 33544712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that there are no 
competing interests in this study.


272. Harefuah. 2009 Nov;148(11):778-82, 792, 791.

[The diagnosis and therapy of first community acquired urinary tract infection 
in children].

[Article in Hebrew]

Miron D(1), Grossman Z.

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Department A, Pediatric Infectious Disease Consultation Service, 
HaEmek Medical Center, Afula, Israel. miron_da@clalit.org.il

A first urinary tract infection (UTI) in childhood is more prevalent in females 
< 5-years-old. Circumcision generally protects males from UTI, however, during 
the month following the procedure, the prevalence of infection increases up to 
12 times in circumcised boys when compared with those not circumcised. Almost 
all the infections are caused by aerobic Gram-negative bacteria of which E. coli 
are responsible for 70-90% of the cases. Signs and symptoms of UTI vary in 
different age groups. Factors associated with the likelihood of UTI are: 
non-circumcised male, fever > 40 degrees C, and a fever > 39 degrees C for more 
than 48 hours with no other focus of infection on physical examination. 
Urinalysis and urine microscopy are screening tests for UTI. In children with 
clinical symptoms and signs suggesting UTI, the results of these tests have a 
positive predictive value (if both are positive), or negative predictive value 
(if both are negative) approximating 100%. The definitive diagnosis of UTI is 
based on the urine culture. Bag urine culture is associated with a very high 
rate of contamination. Therefore, in non-toilet trained children, urine culture 
should be obtained directly from the urinary bladder either by supra pubic 
aspiration or in and out transurethral catheterization. Mid stream clean voided 
urine specimens obtained from circumcised males in the first months of life are 
also acceptable. Depending on the clinical presentation, oral therapy can begin 
from as early as two months of age, and the recommended empiric drugs for first 
febrile UTI are cefuroxime axetil, or amoxicillin clavulanate. Cephlexin is 
recommended for cystitis.

PMID: 20027983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Ann Clin Microbiol Antimicrob. 2020 Sep 17;19(1):43. doi: 
10.1186/s12941-020-00386-8.

Beta-lactams susceptibility testing of penicillin-resistant, 
ampicillin-susceptible Enterococcus faecalis isolates: a comparative assessment 
of Etest and disk diffusion methods against broth dilution.

Conceição N(1)(2), Rodrigues WF(3), de Oliveira KLP(2), da Silva LEP(1), de 
Souza LRC(1), da de Cunha Hueb Barata Oliveira C(4), de Oliveira AG(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Ciências Biológicas e Naturais, Universidade Federal do 
Triângulo Mineiro, Praça Manoel Terra, 330, 38015-050, Uberaba, Minas Gerais, 
Brazil.
(2)Instituto Federal de Educação, Ciência e Tecnologia de Rondônia, Colorado Do 
Oeste, Rondônia, Brazil.
(3)Programa de Pós-graduação em Ciências da Saúde, Universidade Federal do 
Triângulo Mineiro, Uberaba, Minas Gerais, Brazil.
(4)Instituto de Ciências da Saúde, Universidade Federal do Triângulo Mineiro, 
Uberaba, Minas Gerais, Brazil.
(5)Instituto de Ciências Biológicas e Naturais, Universidade Federal do 
Triângulo Mineiro, Praça Manoel Terra, 330, 38015-050, Uberaba, Minas Gerais, 
Brazil. adriana.oliveira@uftm.edu.br.
(6)Programa de Pós-graduação em Ciências da Saúde, Universidade Federal do 
Triângulo Mineiro, Uberaba, Minas Gerais, Brazil. adriana.oliveira@uftm.edu.br.

This study aimed to evaluate the accuracy of disk diffusion and Etest methods, 
compared to that of the broth dilution reference method for identifying 
beta-lactam susceptibilities of Penicillin-Resistant, Ampicillin-Susceptible 
Enterococcus faecalis (PRASEF) isolates. Fifty-nine PRASEF and 15 
Penicillin-Susceptible, Ampicillin-Susceptible E. faecalis (PSASEF) clinical 
nonrepetitive isolates were evaluated. The effectiveness of five beta-lactams 
(ampicillin, amoxicillin, imipenem, penicillin, and piperacillin) was tested. 
All antimicrobial susceptibility tests were performed and interpreted according 
to the Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute guidelines. Interpretative 
discrepancies, such as essential agreement, categorical agreement, and errors, 
were assessed. The acceptability was ≥ 90% for both categorical agreement and 
essential agreement. Etest proved to be an accurate method for testing 
beta-lactam susceptibilities of the emerging PRASEF isolates, disk diffusion 
presented poor performance, particularly for imipenem and piperacillin.

DOI: 10.1186/s12941-020-00386-8
PMCID: PMC7495893
PMID: 32943051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


274. Arch Pediatr. 2008 Oct;15 Suppl 2:S62-7. doi: 10.1016/S0929-693X(08)74218-0.

[Managing children skin and soft tissue infections].

[Article in French]

Moulin F(1), Quinet B, Raymond J, Gillet Y, Cohen R.

Author information:
(1)Urgences pédiatriques, Hôpital Saint Vincent de Paul, 82 av 
Denfert-Rochereau, 75014 Paris, France. Florence.moulin@svp.aphp.fr

The skin infections are common in pediatrics, ranging from furonculosis or 
impetigo to the severe forms of necrotizing dermohypodermitis. The general 
antibiotic treatments are not always indicated but when they are, they must take 
into account the resistance of two main species of bacteria (Staphylococcus 
aureus and Streptococcus pyogenes), the pharmacokinetics-pharmacodynamic 
parameters and the severity and type of infection. Two situations should be 
treated by topical treatements: limited impetigo and furonculosis. The two 
topical antibiotics used preferentially are mupirocine and fucidic acid. Soon, a 
third topical antibiotic, reptamuline will complete these. For uncomplicated 
superficial skin infections justifying an oral antibiotic, 
amoxicillin-clavulanate offers the best guarantee of efficiency. Poor 
pharmacodynamic-pharmacokinetic must lead to not prescribe oral M penicillins. 
In case of allergy, a first-generation cephalosporin, a macrolide (if the 
susceptibility of the strain was checked) or pristinamycine (after 6 years of 
age) are acceptable alternatives. For dermohypodermitis bacterial antibiotic of 
choice remains amoxicillin-clavulanate through IV route, to be active against S. 
pyogenes but also S. aureus and anaerobic bacteria. The IV route is maintained 
until regression general signs and a relay orally by the same drug is then 
possible. For toxinic syndromes and necrozing fascitis clindamycin should be 
added to a beta-lactam because of its action on protein synthesis in particular 
reducing the toxins production.

DOI: 10.1016/S0929-693X(08)74218-0
PMID: 19000857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. PLoS One. 2019 Jun 4;14(6):e0217645. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0217645. 
eCollection 2019.

Helicobacter pylori eradication rate of standard triple therapy and factors 
affecting eradication rate at Bahir Dar city administration, Northwest Ethiopia: 
A prospective follow up study.

Gebeyehu E(1)(2), Nigatu D(3), Engidawork E(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Bahir 
Dar University, Bahir Dar, Ethiopia.
(2)Department of Pharmacology and Clinical Pharmacy, School of Pharmacy, College 
of Health Sciences, Addis Ababa University, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, College of Medicine and Health Sciences, 
Bahir Dar University, Bahir Dar, Ethiopia.

BACKGROUND: Eradication of Helicobacter pylori infection with standard triple 
therapy has been accepted to curb associated risks of chronic gastritis 
andpeptic ulcer disease.
OBJECTIVE: To assess H. pylori eradication rate of standard triple therapy and 
patient related factors affecting eradication rate.
METHODS: A facility based prospective follow up study was conducted in Bahir Dar 
City Administration, Ethiopia, on consented outpatients presented with gastritis 
and peptic ulcer disease and positive for H. pylori stool antigen test from May 
2016 to April 2018. Eradication was confirmed with stool antigen test made after 
4-6 weeks of standard triple therapy, comprising of proton pump inhibitor, 
clarithromycin and amoxicillin. Pre-developed questionnaire and data collection 
formats were used to collect variables before and after therapy. Bivariate and 
backward stepwise multivariate logistic regression was used to analyze data. 
P-value < 0.05 at 95%CI was considered as significant.
RESULTS: The overall H. pylori eradication rate was 90.3% (379/421). Almost 80% 
of the patients were urban residents. Mean (±SD) age and body weight of patients 
were 30.63 (± 10.74) years and 56.79 (± 10.17) kg, respectively. Self-reported 
adverse drug effects and area of residence of patients were factors affecting 
eradication rate significantly. Patients with no self-reported adverse drug 
effect were 3.85 (AOR: 3.85; 95%CI (1.41-5.26)) times more likely to eradicate 
H. pylori infection compared to those reported adverse effects. Patients living 
in rural area were 2.7 (AOR: 2.7; 95%CI (1.19-20.0)) times more likely to 
achieve eradication compared to urban residents.
CONCLUSION: H. pylori eradication rate is within the recommended level for 
clinical practice, indicating that modifications of the standard triple therapy 
observed in the different healthcare institutions are not evidence-based. 
Emphasis should be given to adverse drug effects of medications and tailored 
counseling based on area of residence could have a contribution in improving 
eradication rate.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0217645
PMCID: PMC6548423
PMID: 31163069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


276. Helicobacter. 2017 Apr;22(2). doi: 10.1111/hel.12365. Epub 2016 Nov 23.

High antibiotic resistance of Helicobacter pylori and its effect on tailored and 
empiric eradication of the organism in Lower Silesia, Poland.

Ferenc S(1), Gnus J(1), Kościelna M(2), Kinda M(3), Yarka A(4), Stewart L(2), 
Witkiewicz W(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, Regional Specialist Hospital in Wroclaw, 
Wroclaw, Poland.
(2)Research and Development Centre, Regional Specialist Hospital in Wroclaw, 
Wroclaw, Poland.
(3)Department of Microbiological Laboratory, Research and Development Centre, 
Regional Specialist Hospital in Wroclaw, Wroclaw, Poland.
(4)Departament of Surgery, Lvivs'kyj Nacional'nyj Medychnyj Universytet Imeni 
Danyla Halyc'koho, Lviv, Ukraine.

BACKGROUND: At present, the resistance to antibiotics is considered the most 
important reason for Helicobacter pylori (HP) eradication failure. The aim of 
this study was to estimate the prevalence of antimicrobial resistance of HP 
strains and to evaluate tailored and empiric therapeutic regimens in patients 
with peptic ulcer disease associated with infection of this microorganism.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Between May 2011 and February 2013, 185 consecutive 
Polish patients with at least one positive Helicobacter pylori test (urease 
test, histopathologic examination, and/or culture) underwent eradication 
therapy. Those with positive culture were prescribed a tailored triple regimen, 
whereas those with no culture available received an empiric quadruple 
concomitant regimen or levofloxacin-containing triple therapy.
RESULTS: There were no HP strains resistant to amoxicillin; however, 56.7% were 
resistant to metronidazole, 55.2% to clarithromycin, and 5.9% to levofloxacin. 
Dual resistance was detected in 32.8% of individuals. Tailored and empiric 
therapies achieve cure rates, respectively, 95.5% and 86.6% by 
intention-to-treat and 95.5% and 91.3% by per-protocol analysis (P > 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Antibiotic resistance is notably high in Poland currently, but both 
tailored and empiric therapies can achieve acceptable cure rates equal to or 
higher than 90%.

© 2016 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/hel.12365
PMID: 27879042 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Clin Ther. 1985;7(5):593-9.

Nebulized amoxicillin in chronic purulent bronchiectasis.

Stockley RA, Hill SL, Burnett D.

Nebulized amoxicillin (500 mg twice a day) was given for four months to six 
patients with bronchiectasis. The patients had continually produced purulent 
secretions, which had failed to clear (purulent to mucoid) when amoxicillin was 
given orally (3 gm twice a day). All patients found the nebulization technique 
acceptable, and no acute effect on lung function was seen. There were 
significant reductions in sputum purulence (P less than 0.025) and volume (P 
less than 0.05) and a mean (+/- SD) increase in peak expired flow rate (P less 
than 0.05) from 230.5 +/- 79.2 L/min to 255 +/- 90.1 L/min. These improvements 
occurred despite the fact that apparently resistant bacteria were cultured. No 
adverse effects were noted. The response to nebulized amoxicillin after failure 
with the same drug given orally suggests that local concentrations of antibiotic 
in the lungs of these patients is important.

PMID: 4053147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. J Clin Microbiol. 2012 Apr;50(4):1270-80. doi: 10.1128/JCM.00994-11. Epub 2012 
Jan 4.

Multisite reproducibility of the broth microdilution method for susceptibility 
testing of Nocardia species.

Conville PS(1), Brown-Elliott BA, Wallace RJ Jr, Witebsky FG, Koziol D, Hall GS, 
Killian SB, Knapp CC, Warshauer D, Van T, Wengenack NL, Deml S, Woods GL.

Author information:
(1)Microbiology Service, Department of Laboratory Medicine, Warren G. Magnuson 
Clinical Center, National Institutes of Health, Department of Health and Human 
Services, Bethesda, Maryland, USA. patricia.conville@fda.hhs.gov

Antimicrobial susceptibility testing (AST) of clinical isolates of Nocardia is 
recommended to detect resistance to commonly used antimicrobial agents; such 
testing is complicated by difficulties in inoculum preparation and test 
interpretation. In this study, six laboratories performed repetitive broth 
microdilution testing on single strains of Nocardia brasiliensis, Nocardia 
cyriacigeorgica, Nocardia farcinica, Nocardia nova, and Nocardia wallacei. For 
each isolate, a total of 30 microdilution panels from three different lots were 
tested at most sites. The goal of the study was to determine the inter- and 
intralaboratory reproducibility of susceptibility testing of this group of 
isolates. Acceptable agreement (>90% agreement at ±1 dilution of the MIC mode) 
was found for amikacin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, and moxifloxacin. After 
eliminating MIC values from single laboratories whose results showed the 
greatest deviation from those of the remaining laboratories, acceptable 
agreement was also found for amoxicillin-clavulanic acid, linezolid, 
minocycline, and tobramycin. Results showed unsatisfactory reproducibility of 
broth microdilution testing of ceftriaxone with N. cyriacigeorgica and N. 
wallacei, tigecycline with N. brasiliensis and N. cyriacigeorgica, and 
sulfonamides with N. farcinica and N. wallacei. N. nova ATCC BAA-2227 is 
proposed as a quality control organism for AST of Nocardia sp., and the use of a 
disk diffusion test for sulfisoxazole is proposed as a check of the adequacy of 
the inoculum and to confirm sulfonamide MIC results.

DOI: 10.1128/JCM.00994-11
PMCID: PMC3318531
PMID: 22219309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 1993 Apr;7(2):149-53. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2036.1993.tb00083.x.

Two-week eradication regimen for metronidazole-resistant Helicobacter pylori.

Logan RP(1), Gummett PA, Misiewicz JJ, Karim QN, Walker MM, Baron JH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Nutrition, Central Middlesex Hospital, 
London, UK.

At present there is no generally accepted treatment regimen for eradicating 
metronidazole-resistant Helicobacter pylori. This study determines the 
eradication rate after treatment with 40 mg omeprazole o.m. and 500 mg 
amoxycillin q.d.s. for 14 days, with 120 mg tripotassium dicitrato bismuthate 
q.d.s. for the first week (Days 1-7) and 750 mg ciprofloxacin b.d. for the 
second week (Days 8-14). Thirty patients (16 male, mean age 45 years, range 
16-80 years) with duodenal ulcers (n = 18) or non-ulcer dyspepsia (n = 2) and 
metronidazole-resistant H. pylori detected by histology, culture, in vitro 
sensitivity tests and a positive 13C-urea breath test entered the study. 
Follow-up was by 13C-urea breath test at the end of treatment and at 1, 3, 6, 
and 12 months. Eradication was defined as a negative 13C-urea breath test at 
least 1 month after finishing treatment. H. pylori was successfully eradicated 
in 21/30 (71%) patients (median follow-up 10.2 months, range 4-12 months). A 
pre-treatment ciprofloxacin-resistant strain was isolated in 1/9 patients in 
whom eradication failed. Of 30 patients 29 completed the 2-week regimen; one 
patient experienced dizziness after 3 days of treatment. The most common 
side-effect was increased stool frequency (n = 6). This 2-week treatment regimen 
for metronidazole-resistant H. pylori is well tolerated and achieves an 
eradication rate of 70%.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2036.1993.tb00083.x
PMID: 8485267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Int J Biol Macromol. 2014 Jun;67:43-52. doi: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2014.02.035. 
Epub 2014 Feb 21.

Covalent TiO(2)/pectin microspheres with Fe(3)O(4) nanoparticles for magnetic 
field-modulated drug delivery.

da Silva EP(1), Sitta DL(1), Fragal VH(1), Cellet TS(1), Mauricio MR(1), Garcia 
FP(2), Nakamura CV(3), Guilherme MR(1), Rubira AF(1), Kunita MH(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, State University of Maringá, Av. Colombo, 5790, CEP 
87020-900 Maringá, Paraná, Brazil.
(2)Department of Basic Sciences of Health, State University of Maringá, Av. 
Colombo, 5790, CEP 87020-900 Maringá, Paraná, Brazil.
(3)Department of Basic Sciences of Health, State University of Maringá, Av. 
Colombo, 5790, CEP 87020-900 Maringá, Paraná, Brazil; Graduate Program in 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Department of Basic Science of Health, State University 
of Maringá, Av. Colombo, 5790, CEP 87020-900 Maringá, Paraná, Brazil.
(4)Department of Chemistry, State University of Maringá, Av. Colombo, 5790, CEP 
87020-900 Maringá, Paraná, Brazil. Electronic address: mhkunita@gmail.com.

Covalent TiO(2)-co-pectin microspheres containing Fe(3)O(4) nanoparticles were 
developed through an ultrasound-induced crosslinking/polymerization reaction 
between the glycidyl methacrylate from vinyl groups in TiO(2) and in pectin. 
ζ-potentials became less negative in the nanostructured microspheres, caused by 
the presence of both inorganic particles in the negatively charged pectin. The 
nanostructured pectin microspheres showed an amoxicillin release rate slower 
than that of pure pectin microspheres. The proposed microspheres were found to 
be a sustained release system of amoxicillin in the acid medium. Furthermore, 
the antibiotic release may be modulated by exposition of the microspheres to a 
remote magnetic field. In practical terms, the nanostructured microspheres could 
deliver a larger proportion of their initial load to specific site of action. 
The cytotoxic concentrations for 50% of VERO cells (CC(50)), calculated as the 
concentration required to reduce cell viability by 50% after 72h of incubation, 
for pectin-only microspheres and nanostructured pectin microspheres were 
217.7±6.5 and 121.5±4.9μgmL(-1), respectively. The obtained CC(50) values 
indicated acceptable cytotoxic levels for an incubation period of 72h, showing 
that the pectin microspheres have a great pharmacological potential for uses in 
biological environments, even after the introduction of both Fe(3)O(4) and 
TiO(2).

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2014.02.035
PMID: 24565898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Chonnam Med J. 2012 Apr;48(1):15-20. doi: 10.4068/cmj.2012.48.1.15. Epub 2012 
Apr 26.

Knowledge of General Dentists and Senior Dental Students in Iran about 
Prevention of Infective Endocarditis.

Ahmadi-Motamayel F(1), Vaziri S, Roshanaei G.

Author information:
(1)Research Center for Molecular Medicine, Department of Oral Medicine, School 
of Dentistry, Hamadan University of Medical Sciences, Hamadan, Iran.

Infective endocarditis (IE) is an infection of the endothelial surface of the 
heart and heart valves with serious, even fatal, complications and that often 
requires long-term and expensive treatment. Dental procedures may lead to IE in 
high-risk patients. The aim of this study was to evaluate and compare the 
knowledge of general dentists and dental students concerning the prevention of 
IE in Hamadan, Iran. In this cross-sectional study, the awareness of general 
dentists and dentistry students concerning the prevention of IE was evaluated 
during 2010. A questionnaire was prepared and administered to 58 final-year 
dental students and 96 general dental practitioners in Hamadan. A total of 154 
persons completed the questionnaire. The questionnaire consisted of some 
demographic questions and questions about awareness of IE in three sections. The 
gathered data were analyzed by using descriptive statistics, Pearson's 
chi-square test, Mann-Whitney test, and independent t-tests. The gathered data 
showed that dentistry students answered the questions about awareness of the 
prevention of IE more correctly than did general dentists. The overall knowledge 
of endocarditis prophylaxis among students and dentists was about 65% and 56%, 
respectively. The students' knowledge was better because 94.9% of the students 
had desired (acceptable) and relatively desired knowledge; this result for 
dentists, however, was 82.3%. In our study, the overall awareness level of the 
study population was moderate. Dentist and students believed that patients with 
prosthetic valves and previous IE were the most common cardiac disease cases 
that required prophylaxis. The most common prophylactic regimen was in 
accordance with the guidelines of the American Heart Association and was a 
single dose of 2 g amoxicillin 1 hour before treatment. The results indicated 
that gender had no effect on the level of knowledge; however, there was a 
statistically significant relationship between age and level of knowledge.

DOI: 10.4068/cmj.2012.48.1.15
PMCID: PMC3341432
PMID: 22570810


282. Clin Microbiol Infect. 2012 Nov;18(11):E452-8. doi: 
10.1111/j.1469-0691.2012.03980.x. Epub 2012 Aug 22.

Assessment of the Phoenix™ automated system and EUCAST breakpoints for 
antimicrobial susceptibility testing against isolates expressing clinically 
relevant resistance mechanisms.

Giani T(1), Morosini MI, D'Andrea MM, García-Castillo M, Rossolini GM, Cantón R.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Biotecnologie, Sezione di Microbiologia, Siena University 
Hospital, Siena, Italy.

EUCAST breakpoint criteria are being adopted by automatic antimicrobial 
susceptibility testing systems. The accuracy of the Phoenix Automated System in 
combination with 2012 EUCAST breakpoints against recent clinical isolates was 
evaluated. A total of 697 isolates (349 Enterobacteriaceae, 113 Pseudomonas 
spp., 25 Acinetobacter baumannii, 11 Stenotrophomonas maltophilia, 95 
Staphylococcus aureus, 6 coagulase negative staphylococci, 77 enterococci and 21 
Streptococcus pneumoniae) with defined resistance phenotypes and 
well-characterized resistance mechanisms recovered in Spain (n = 343) and Italy 
(n = 354) were tested. Comparator antimicrobial susceptibility testing data were 
obtained following CLSI guidelines. Experimental agreement (EA), defined as MIC 
agreement ±1 log(2) dilution, category agreement (CA) and relative discrepancies 
(minor (mD), major (MD) and very major discrepancies (VMD)) were determined. The 
overall EA and CA for all organism-antimicrobial agent combinations (n = 6.294) 
were 97.3% and 95.2%, respectively. mD, MD and VMD were 4.7%, 1.3% and 2.7%, all 
of them in agreement with the ISO (ISO20776-2:2007) acceptance criteria for 
assessment of susceptibility testing devices. VMD were mainly observed in 
amoxicillin-clavulanate and cefuroxime in Enterobacteriaceae and gentamicin in 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa, whereas MD were mainly observed in 
amoxicillin-clavulante in Enterobacteriaceae. mD were mainly observed in 
Enterobacteriaceae but distributed in different antimicrobials. For S. aureus 
and enterococci relative discrepancies were low. The Phoenix system showed 
accuracy assessment in accordance with the ISO standards when using EUCAST 
breakpoints. Inclusion of EUCAST criteria in automatic antimicrobial 
susceptibility testing systems will facilitate the implementation of EUCAST 
breakpoints in clinical microbiology laboratories.

© 2012 The Authors. Clinical Microbiology and Infection © 2012 European Society 
of Clinical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-0691.2012.03980.x
PMID: 22909279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Acta Microbiol Immunol Hung. 2024 Aug 26;71(3):248-252. doi: 
10.1556/030.2024.02332. Print 2024 Sep 18.

Case report of an abdominal wet gangrene caused by Acidaminococcus.

Fakhfakh A(1)(2), Ferjani S(1)(2), Kanzari L(1)(2), Ferjani A(1)(2), Hamzaoui 
Z(2), Rehaiem A(1)(2), Ben Dhaou A(3), Aloui M(3), Karoui Y(3), Syala N(1), 
Bouaani H(1), Ben Moussa M(3), Ben Boubaker IB(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)1Charles Nicolle Hospital, Laboratory of Microbiology, National Reference 
Laboratory on Antibicrobial Resistance Surveillance, 1006, Tunis, Tunisia.
(2)2Faculty of Medicine of Tunis, LR99ES09, Research Laboratory, «Antimicrobiens 
Resistance», University of Tunis El Manar, 1007, Tunis, Tunisia.
(3)3Department of Surgery A 21, Charles Nicolle Hospital, 1006, Tunis, Tunisia.

The Acidaminococcus genus is a part of the normal flora in gastrointestinal 
tract. It is a strictly anaerob Gram-negative coccus that is rarely pathogenic. 
We report the case of a 58-year-old man, who presented to surgery department A 
of the Charles Nicolle hospital, complaining of a wide inflammatory lesion in 
the anterior abdominal wall evolving for two weeks. Patient's anamnestic data 
included smoking, hypertension, and diabetes mellitus with poor compliance. The 
patient underwent flattening with excision of necrotic tissues and surgical 
drainage using a DELBET blade. Empirical antibiotic therapy with imipenem 
1gx3/d, teicoplanin 400 mg 1 inj x2/d and gentamicin 400 mg 1 inj/d was 
administered pending bacteriological results. The bacteriological examination of 
a sample of necrotic tissue, after 72 h of incubation at 37 °C in anaerobic 
atmosphere, was able to detect a Gram-negative coccus, that the VITEK2 ANC 
system identified as Actinomyces canis with an accuracy of 80%. Whole genome 
sequencing was subsequently performed, that identified Acidaminococcus sp. 
AM33-14BH and demonstrated the following resistance genes: cfxa, tet(X) and 
tet(Q). An antibiogram for anaerobes was performed showing that the strain was 
resistant to amoxicillin but sensitive to amoxicillin-clavulanic acid, 
piperacillin-tazobactam, ertapenem, imipenem, meropenem and rifampin. Patient's 
condition improved after treatment with imipenem for 2 weeks, followed by oral 
amoxicillin-clavulanic acid for 16 days.This work highlights the role of 
molecular biology in the diagnosis of infections caused by anaerobes. Although 
the Vitek 2 ANC card provides rapid and acceptable identification of the most 
common anaerobic bacteria, improvements are needed for the identification of 
bacteria in the genera Acidaminococcus and Actinomyces.

DOI: 10.1556/030.2024.02332
PMID: 39186383 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Drugs. 2008;68(6):725-36. doi: 10.2165/00003495-200868060-00001.

Therapy for Helicobacter pylori infection can be improved: sequential therapy 
and beyond.

Graham DY(1), Lu H, Yamaoka Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Michael E. DeBakey Veterans Affairs Medical Center, 
Houston, Texas 77030, USA. dgraham@bcm.tmc.edu

As with other bacterial infections, successful treatment of Helicobacter pylori 
infections depends on the use of antibacterial agents to which the organism is 
susceptible. In this article, we use the proposed report card grading scheme 
(i.e. grade A, B, C, D, F) for the outcome of clinical trials, where 
intention-to-treat cure rates >95% = A, 90-95% = B, 85-89% = C, 81-84% = D and 
<81% = F. The goal of therapy is to consistently cure >95% of patients (e.g. 
provide grade A results). Like tuberculosis, H. pylori infections are difficult 
to cure and successful treatment generally requires the administration of 
several antibacterial agents simultaneously. Duration of therapy is also 
important and depends upon whether resistance is present; 14 days is often best. 
With few exceptions, worldwide increasing macrolide resistance now undermines 
the effectiveness of the legacy triple therapy (e.g. a proton pump inhibitor 
[PPI], clarithromycin and amoxicillin) and, in most areas, cure rates have 
declined to unacceptable levels (e.g. grade F). The development of sequential 
therapy was one response to this problem. Sequential therapy has repeatedly been 
shown in head-to-head studies to be superior to legacy triple therapy. 
Sequential therapy, as originally described, is the sequential administration of 
a dual therapy (a PPI plus amoxicillin) followed by a Bazzoli-type triple 
therapy (a PPI plus clarithromycin and tinidazole) and has been shown to be 
especially useful where there is clarithromycin resistance. However, the cure 
rates of the original sequential treatment are grade B and can probably be 
further improved by changes in dose, duration or administration, such as by 
continuing the amoxicillin into the triple therapy arm. The sequential approach 
may also be more complicated than necessary, based on the fact that the same 
four drugs have also been given concomitantly (at least nine publications with 
>700 patients) as a quadruple therapy with excellent success. This article 
discusses the approach to therapy in the modern era where antimicrobial 
resistance is an increasing problem and legacy triple therapy is no longer an 
acceptable initial choice. Methods to achieve acceptable eradication rates (e.g. 
grade A or B results) are discussed and, specifically, sequential therapy is 
considered both conceptually and practically. Suggestions are provided regarding 
how sequential therapy might be improved to become a grade A therapy as well as 
how to identify situations where it can be expected to yield unacceptable 
results. New uses for current drugs are discussed and suggestions for subsequent 
randomized comparisons to overcome phenotypic and genotypic resistance are 
given. We propose a change in focus from comparative studies (designed to prove 
that a new therapy is superior to a known inferior therapy) to demanding that 
efficacious therapies meet or exceed a pre-specified level of success (i.e. 
grade A or B result). To do so, coupled with less concern about the effect of 
recommendations on the pharmaceutical industry, should provide clinicians with 
much higher quality information, and improve the quality of medical care and 
recommendations regarding treatment. Ultimately, there is little or no 
justification for comparative testing that includes an arm with known 
unacceptably low results. H. pylori gastritis is an infectious disease and 
should be approached and treated as such.

DOI: 10.2165/00003495-200868060-00001
PMID: 18416582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. J Public Health (Oxf). 2023 Mar 14;45(1):176-188. doi: 10.1093/pubmed/fdab409.

Implementation research to increase treatment coverage of possible serious 
bacterial infections in young infants when a referral is not feasible: lessons 
learnt.

Ariff S(1), Soofi SB(1)(2), Suhag Z(3), Chanar S(2), Bhura M(2), Dahar Z(3), 
Ahmed I(2), Turab A(2), Habib A(2), Nisar YB(4), Aboubaker S(4), Wall S(5), 
Soomro AW(3), Qazi SA(6), Bahl R(4), Bhutta ZA(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics and Child Health, Aga Khan University, Karachi, 
Pakistan.
(2)Centre of Excellence in Women & Child Health, Aga Khan University, Karachi, 
Pakistan.
(3)People's Primary Healthcare Initiative, Sindh, Pakistan.
(4)Department of Maternal Newborn Child, Adolescent Health and Aging, World 
Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland.
(5)Saving Newborn Lives, Save the Children, Washington DC, USA.
(6)Former WHO Staff, Geneva, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: The objective was to achieve high coverage of possible serious 
bacterial infections (PSBI) treatment using the World Health Organization (WHO) 
guideline for managing it on an outpatient basis when referral to a hospital is 
not feasible.
METHODS: We implemented this guideline in the programme settings at 10 Basic 
Health Units (BHU) in two rural districts of Sindh in Pakistan using 
implementation research. A Technical Support Unit supported the programme to 
operationalize guidelines, built capacity of health workers through training, 
monitored their clinical skills, mentored them and assured quality. The 
community-based health workers visited households to identify sick infants and 
referred them to the nearest BHU for further management. The research team 
collected data.
RESULTS: Of 17 600 identified livebirths, 1860 young infants with any sign of 
PSBI sought care at BHUs and 1113 (59.8%) were brought by families. We achieved 
treatment coverage of 95%, assuming an estimated 10% incidence of PSBI in the 
first 2 months of life and that 10% of young infants came from outside the study 
catchment area. All 923 infants (49%; 923/1860) 7-59 days old with only fast 
breathing (pneumonia) treated with outpatient oral amoxicillin were cured. 
Hospital referral was refused by 83.4% (781/937) families who accepted 
outpatient treatment; 92.2% (720/781) were cured and 0.8% (6/781) died. Twelve 
(7.6%; 12/156) died among those treated in a hospital.
CONCLUSION: It is feasible to achieve high coverage by implementing WHO PSBI 
management guidelines in a programmatic setting when a referral is not feasible.

© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Faculty 
of Public Health.

DOI: 10.1093/pubmed/fdab409
PMCID: PMC10017086
PMID: 35138390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Pediatr Infect Dis J. 1995 Apr;14(4 Suppl):S7-11.

Pharyngitis/tonsillitis: European and United States experience with cefpodoxime 
proxetil.

Dajani AS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Wayne State University School of Medicine, Detroit, 
MI, USA.

Most authorities continue to recommend penicillin as the treatment of choice for 
group A streptococcal pharyngitis. If penicillin is used, 10 days of treatment 
are necessary to achieve a clinical and bacteriologic cure. The usually 
recommended penicillin V dose is 250 mg (400,000 IU) three times daily. Twice 
daily dosing is acceptable to some authorities if compliance is good. However, 
oral penicillin fails to eradicate group A streptococci from the pharynx in up 
to 17% of cases; in some studies 30% failure rates have been reported. Several 
European and United States studies indicate that a variety of oral 
cephalosporins, when used for 10 days, are significantly superior to penicillin 
V in eradicating group A streptococci from the pharynx. For example cefpodoxime 
proxetil given twice daily for 10 days is comparable to penicillin V given three 
times daily for 10 days in achieving a clinical cure and appears to be 
significantly superior to penicillin in eradicating group A streptococci from 
the pharynx. Preliminary studies from Europe and the United States strongly 
suggest that 5-day therapy with cefpodoxime (or other selected oral 
cephalosporins) is at least as effective, clinically and microbiologically, as 
10-day therapy with penicillin V. Further clinical trials are warranted to 
confirm the adequacy of 5-day treatment and to assess the efficacy of 
cefpodoxime and other agents in preventing rheumatic fever.

PMID: 7792129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Ren Fail. 2007;29(1):97-102. doi: 10.1080/08860220601039122.

Eradication of Helicobacter pylori in hemodialysis patients.

Itatsu T(1), Miwa H, Nagahara A, Kubota M, Miyazaki A, Sato N, Hayashida Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Juntendo Koshigaya Hospital, Saitama, Japan. 
titatsu@med.juntendo.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) are a causative agent of digestive 
disease. Although a proton pump inhibitor combined with 
amoxicillin-clarithromycin is the accepted drug treatment for H. pylori 
eradication in Japan, there is no consensus treatment for hemodialysis patients.
STUDY: Seventy-seven hemodialysis patients underwent upper digestive tract 
endoscopy. Biopsy specimens were taken, and histological findings, culture, and 
rapid urease tests were performed to confirm the presence of H. pylori. H. 
pylori-positive patients were then administered at random either a seven-day 
lansoprazole (60 mg a day)-amoxicillin (750 mg a day)-clarithromycin (400 mg a 
day) (LAC) regimen or a seven-day lansoprazole (60 mg a day)-clarithromycin (400 
mg a day) (LC) regimen. The success of H. pylori eradication was determined from 
histological findings, culture, and rapid urease tests.
RESULTS: In 13 of 77 patients (13.6%), ulcers and/or ulcer scars were seen by 
endoscopy. Thirty-one patients (40.3%) were positive for H. pylori, and 20 
patients among them were randomized to one of two regimens: one is seven-day LAC 
regimen (eleven patients) and the other is seven-day LC regimen (nine patients). 
Eradication was successful in nine of the eleven patients (72.7%) receiving the 
LAC regimen, but in only three of the nine patients (33.3%) who underwent the LC 
regimen. No serious adverse effects were observed with either regimen, and 95% 
of the patients reported complete compliance.
CONCLUSION: A seven-day low dose LAC regimen is safe and effective and 
recommended for treatment of H. pylori infection in hemodialysis patients.

DOI: 10.1080/08860220601039122
PMID: 17365917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Helicobacter. 2006 Aug;11(4):224-30. doi: 10.1111/j.1523-5378.2006.00414.x.

Antimicrobial susceptibility of Helicobacter pylori strains in a random adult 
Swedish population.

Storskrubb T(1), Aro P, Ronkainen J, Wreiber K, Nyhlin H, Bolling-Sternevald E, 
Talley NJ, Engstrand L, Agréus L.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Family and Community Medicine, Department of Neurotec, Karolinska 
Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden. tom.storskrubb@nll.se

BACKGROUND AND AIM: Antimicrobial resistance in Helicobacter pylori is a growing 
problem and has become an important factor leading to eradication failure. 
Information on antimicrobial susceptibility is important for selection of an 
optimum treatment regimen. The resistance rate in a random population has not 
been studied previously.
METHODS: A random Swedish population sample (n = 3000, age 20-1 years) was 
surveyed using a mailed validated questionnaire assessing gastrointestinal 
symptoms (response rate of 74%). One-third of the responders was invited, in 
random order, and accepted an esophagogastroduodenoscopy with biopsies for H. 
pylori culture and histology. Subjects were not treated for their H. pylori 
infection but a minimum inhibitory concentration of metronidazole, 
clarithromycin, amoxicillin, and tetracycline for the H. pylori isolates (n = 
333) was determined by agar dilution. Prescribed antibiotic in the area was 
recorded.
RESULTS: Irrespective of symptomatology, 16.2% of the isolated H. pylori strains 
were resistant to metronidazole, 1.5% to clarithromycin, 0% to amoxicillin, and 
0.3% to tetracycline. The antibiotic consumption was low from an international 
perspective.
CONCLUSION: The resistance to the antibiotics was lower than expected from 
patient sample studies, especially for clarithromycin, most probably due to a 
restrictive prescription policy in the area. Introduction of a test-and-treat 
strategy in Sweden would only marginally affect the usage of clarithromycin.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1523-5378.2006.00414.x
PMID: 16882324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Rev Med Interne. 2011 Dec;32(12):730-5. doi: 10.1016/j.revmed.2011.07.004. Epub 
2011 Sep 8.

[Survey of general practitioners management of erysipelas].

[Article in French]

Larivière D(1), Blavot-Delépine A, Fantin B, Lefort A.

Author information:
(1)Service de médecine interne, hôpital Beaujon, Clichy, France.

PURPOSE: A few studies only have focused on ambulatory management of erysipelas.
METHODS: To assess the diagnostic and therapeutic management of erysipelas by 
general practitioners, and their adherence to the French Society of Infectious 
Diseases and Dermatology joint 2000 recommendations, we surveyed 114 general 
practitioners during a 1 year period (from May 1st, 2005 to April 30th, 2006).
RESULTS: Seventy-three general practitioners accepted to participate to the 
study and 54 cases of erysipelas were reported. Median age of patients was 63 
years (range, 18-94) and sex ratio was 0.77. Lower limbs were affected in 83% 
out of the cases. A skin lesion was reported in 65% of the cases. None of the 15 
doppler ultrasonography that were performed identified deep vein thrombosis. 
Five patients (9%) were initially hospitalized. Only 18% out of the patients 
were treated by amoxicillin. Most prescribed antimicrobial agents were 
pristinamycin (31%) and amoxicillin-clavulanate (27%). Median duration of 
treatment was 10 days. Six patients received an anti-inflammatory drug. Among 
the 44 patients who had a follow-up visit, 37 patients (84%) recovered and two 
patients were hospitalized after this follow-up assessment. Two patients 
experienced a recurrence of erysipelas during the study.
CONCLUSION: As previously reported in the literature, outcome of erysipelas 
after ambulatory management remains excellent, although recommendations are 
poorly followed.

Copyright © 2011 Société nationale française de médecine interne (SNFMI). 
Published by Elsevier SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.revmed.2011.07.004
PMID: 21862184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Helicobacter. 2000 Mar;5(1):52-6. doi: 10.1046/j.1523-5378.2000.00007.x.

Four-day, twice daily, quadruple therapy with amoxicillin, clarithromycin, 
tinidazole and omeprazole to cure Helicobacter pylori infection: a pilot study.

Calvet X(1), Titó L, Comet R, García N, Campo R, Brullet E.

Author information:
(1)Medicine and Surgery Services and Endoscopy Unit, Corporació Sanitària Parc 
Taulí, Sabadell, Spain. xcalvet@cspt.es

BACKGROUND: The best regimen for the treatment of Helicobacter pylori infection 
has yet to be defined. Four-day quadruple therapy with tetracycline, 
metronidazole, bismuth, and a proton pump inhibitor has been shown to obtain a 
very high cure rate. However, the fact that it must be taken four times daily 
may interfere with compliance. The objective of the study was to test the 
efficacy and tolerability of a new 4-day therapy with 4 drugs taken every 12 
hours to cure H. pylori infection. Patients and Methods. Fifty-six consecutive 
patients with peptic ulcer disease and H. pylori infection were treated with an 
oral 4-day course with omeprazole (20 mg/12 hours), clarithromycin (500 mg/12 
hours), amoxicillin (1 g/12 hours) and tinidazole (500 mg/12 hours). Efficacy of 
the treatment was determined at least 2 months after therapy either by biopsy 
(in the case of gastric ulcer) or by 13C-urea breath test. A second breath test 
was performed at least 6 months after therapy.
RESULTS: Two patients were lost to follow-up. Forty-nine of the remaining 54 
patients were cured at the first control [intention-to-treat cure rate: 87.5% 
(CI 95% 75-94%); per protocol cure rate: 90.7% (CI 95% 81-98%)]. Forty-three of 
these 49 cured patients returned for a second 13C urea breath-test at 6-12 
months. Two of them were not cured, giving a long-term cure rate of 85.5% per 
protocol and 73.2% by intention-to-treat. Compliance was good, although 25 
patients had mild side effects.
CONCLUSION: This particular four-day therapy is well tolerated, easy to follow, 
and achieves an acceptably high cure rate.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1523-5378.2000.00007.x
PMID: 10672052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Infection. 1982;10 Suppl 2:S86-91. doi: 10.1007/BF01640862.

[Erythromycin versus amoxicillin for the treatment of pneumonia in children 
(author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Ruhrmann H, Blenk H.

Following a study in which the etiology of nearly 70% of 142 cases of pneumonia 
in children could be determined using a combination of bacteriological and 
serological methods, the effect of erythromycin ethylsuccinate was compared with 
that of amoxicillin in a randomized study on 120 cases of pneumonia. We first 
examined the tracheal secretion microbiologically and determined other 
serological parameters and clinical data. The tracheal secretion was sterile in 
only 19% of the cases. We were able to identify the etiology in 64% of the cases 
using a combination of microbiological and serological methods. A 
discontinuation of therapy and acceptable side-effects were considerably more 
frequent with amoxicillin than with erythromycin ethylsuccinate (75 mg/kg body 
weight). The advantages of erythromycin, especially for the initial therapy of 
pneumonia, and the improvements in diagnosis resulting from the examination of 
the tracheal secretion will be discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01640862
PMID: 7049959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Nihon Shokakibyo Gakkai Zasshi. 2004 Nov;101(11):1209-16.

[Evaluation of the efficacy of an Helicobacter pylori eradication treatment for 
idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura patients].

[Article in Japanese]

Kato A(1), Kato H, Hirashima N, Sakamoto T, Nukaya H, Ito K, Matsunaga S, Kondo 
H, Tanaka Y, Sakakibara K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Social Insurance Chukyo Hospital.

The relationship between Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) and gastric diseases 
(e.g. peptic ulcer, MALT lymphoma, and stomach cancer) has been widely accepted. 
Recent studies have also suggested an association between H. pylori infection 
and idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP). In this study, an H. pylori 
eradication treatment was administered to 20 ITP patients and elucidated for its 
effectiveness. Among those 20 patients, H. pylori infection was confirmed in 17 
(85%) through a C14 urea breath test, a rapid urease test, or a culture 
examination of a biopsied sample obtained by gastrointestinal endoscopy. 
Although the other 3 were negative to H. pylori, the H. pylori eradication 
treatment was also attempted because no other effective treatments had been 
established at the time of this study. In the H. pylori eradication treatment, 
lansoprazole (LPZ) 60 mg bid, amoxicillin (AMPC) 1500 mg bid, and clarithromycin 
(CAM) 400 mg bid were given to each patient for 7 days. For 4 cases, CAM was 
replaced with metronidazole (MNZ) 750 mg bid. The patients whose H. pylori 
infection was not eradicated after the first treatment received the 
re-eradication treatment with LPZ 60 mg bid, AMPC 1500 mg bid, and MNZ 750 mg 
bid for 7 days. After the treatments, the success of eradicating H. pylori was 
confirmed in all 17 H. pylori positive patients. In addition, platelet recovery 
was obtained in 11/20 patients (55%), which included 2 H. pylori negative 
patients and 2 patients whose H. pylori eradication was not successful after the 
first treatment. No relationship was found between the eradication effectiveness 
and the following clinical parameters: age, gender, previous therapies, disease 
duration, presence of anti-nucleus antibody, endoscopic atrophic change in the 
stomach, or kinds of antibiotics used for the treatment. These results support 
the efficacy of an H. pylori eradication treatment for ITP patients. A 
noteworthy result of this study was that an increase of platelet count was 
observed not only in H. pylori positive ITP patients, but also in 2 out of 3 H. 
pylori negative ITP patients after H. pylori eradication. Further studies are 
required to elucidate the efficacy of H. pylori eradication therapy in the 
patients negative for H. pylori.

PMID: 15570869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Acta Gastroenterol Belg. 2011 Sep;74(3):407-12.

"7, 10 and 14-days rabeprazole-based standard triple therapies for H. pylori 
eradication: are they still effective? A randomized trial".

Karatapanis S(1), Georgopoulos SD, Papastergiou V, Skorda L, Papantoniou N, 
Lisgos P, Kouvidou C, Fragkou P, Mentis A.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Internal Medicine, General Hospital of Rhodes, Greece. 
stylkar@otenet.gr

BACKGROUND & STUDY AIMS: Increasing data suggests that the efficiency of 
standard triple therapies of 7-10-14 days duration has fallen below the 
threshold for acceptability (80% cure rates in intention to treat analysis). Use 
of rabeprazole, a PPI less influenced by CYP2C19 gene polymorphisms is reported 
to lead to improved eradication rates. This study aims to re-examine the 
effectiveness of 7-10-14 days triple therapies based on rabeprazole in Greek 
patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: 307 patients, from 2 endoscopic centers in Greece, were 
randomized to receive Rabeprazole 20 mg bid, Clarithromycin 500 mg bid, and 
Amoxycillin 1gr bid for 7-days, for 10-days or for 14-days. Cure rates were 
assessed by CLO-test and histology. Clarithromycin sensitivity tests were 
carried out in the cultured pre-treatment H.pylori strains. The success rates 
were calculated by both intention-to-treat (ITT) and per protocol (PP) analyses.
RESULTS: The eradication rates according to ITT analyses were 74.5% (95% CI: 
66.5-82.9%) for 7-days, 80.6% (95% CI: 73.2-88.2%) for 10-days and 90.2% (95% 
CI: 84.5-95.9%) for 14-days treatment. PP cure rates were 76% (95% CI: 
68.4-85.0%) for 7-days, 83% (95% CI: 76.6-91.0%) for 10-days and 93.9% (95% CI: 
86.7-973%) for 14-days treatment. Side effects were generally minor and 
comparable in all treatment groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Both 10- and 14-days rabeprazole-based triple regimens reached 
eradication rates above the threshold of 80% on an intention to treat basis. In 
our setting, the current regimen using rabeprazole, amoxicillin and 
clarithromycin was well tolerated, is still effective and should continue to be 
recommended as first-line therapy for H. pylori eradication.

PMID: 22103045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. J Infect Dev Ctries. 2014 Apr 15;8(4):408-15. doi: 10.3855/jidc.4052.

Comparative evaluation of six phenotypic methods for detecting extended-spectrum 
beta-lactamase-producing Enterobacteriaceae.

Singh RM(1), Singh HL.

Author information:
(1)Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Medical Sciences, Imphal, India. 
rkmksingh@gmail.com.

INTRODUCTION: Various conventional phenotypic methods and automated systems have 
been evaluated for extended-spectrum beta-lactamase (ESBL) detection. There is a 
paucity of data comparing these methods using the same clinical isolates in 
eastern and north-eastern parts of India. The present study was designed to 
compare the capacity of six phenotypic methods to detect ESBLs in clinical 
isolates of Enterobacteriaceae.
METHODOLOGY: A total of 206 non-duplicate clini-cal isolates of 
Enterobacteriaceae, obtained over a period of six months (July to December, 
2012), were tested by the Vitek 2, double disk synergy tests (30 mm, 20 mm, and 
modified method), combined disk test, and ESBL Etest to evaluate their ability 
to detect ESBLs. Minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC) by the agar dilution 
method was used as the reference method.
RESULTS: The reference method detected ESBLs in 57 (27.7%) isolates. Among the 
six methods, the combined disk test demonstrated an overall agreement of 100% 
with the MIC. The Vitek 2 showed a sensitivity and specificity of 91.8% and 
97.24%, respectively, with a positive predictive value of 93.33%. The 
sensitivities of the conventional methods ranged from 83% to 94%. The highest 
sensitivity and specificity were shown by combined disk (93.44%) and double disk 
synergy (100%) techniques, respectively.
CONCLUSION: In our setting, Vitek 2 showed an acceptable capacity to detect ESBL 
isolates as it improved the turnover time (6 to 8 hours) in comparison to 
conventional phenotypic methods, which took a minimum of 24 hours. However, the 
combined disk test achieved the highest sensitivity.

DOI: 10.3855/jidc.4052
PMID: 24727505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Turk J Gastroenterol. 2019 May;30(5):420-435. doi: 10.5152/tjg.2019.18693.

Standard triple therapy in Helicobacter pylori eradication in Turkey: Systematic 
evaluation and meta-analysis of 10-year studies.

Sezgin O(1), Aydın MK(2), Özdemir AA(3), Kanık AE(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Mersin University School of Medicine, Mersin, 
Turkey.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, Lokman Hekim Hospital, Van, Turkey.
(3)Department of Biostatistics, Mersin University School of Medicine, Mersin, 
Turkey.
(4)Department of Biostatistics, Health Sciences University School of Medicine, 
İstanbul, Turkey.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: This study aims at evaluating the mean eradication rate by a 
systematic compilation of the studies which involved the standard triple therapy 
(STT) in first-line Helicobacter pylori (Hp) eradication in Turkey over a period 
of 10 years between 2004 and 2013 using the meta-analysis method.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The systematic compilation and meta-analysis were carried 
out according to the PRISMA standards defined in the Cochrane handbook. The 
results of full-text studies published in national and international journals in 
English and Turkish languages on Turkish population in a period of 10 years, 
from 2004 to 2013, are included in this study. The studies include open-label 
trials, controlled trials, treatment arms, and case series that included a 
triple therapy regimen consisting of standard doses of a proton pump inhibitor 
(PPI; omeprazole 20 mg BID, lansoprazole 30 mg BID, pantoprazole 40 mg BID, 
esomeprazole 40 mg BID, or rabeprazole 20 mg BID) along with clarithromycin 500 
mg BID and amoxicillin 1 g BID for 7-14 days. They were scanned electronically 
via the search engines Google Scholar, PubMed, and the Turkish Medicine Index 
using specific keywords. The related keywords used were Turkey, Helicobacter 
pylori, infection, standard triple treatment, first-line therapy, eradication, 
omeprazole, lansoprazole, pantoprazole, rabeprazole, esomeprazole, 
clarithromycin, and amoxicillin. Studies carried out with adults were included 
in the evaluation. The publication year of the studies and the included number 
of patients, their age, gender, treatment duration (7, 10, and 14 days), and 
PPIs used were evaluated by two separate gastroenterologists and 
biostatisticians. Studies that used at least one reliable method (histology, 
urea breath test (UBT), or Helicobacter pylori stool antigen (HpSA) test) four 
weeks after completing the treatment for the control of Hp eradication were 
included. Only naive patients were accepted, and patients who had previously 
received eradication treatment were excluded. The effectiveness of the Hp 
eradication was analyzed using an intention-to-treat (ITT) or per-protocol (PP) 
analysis.
RESULTS: The STT regime of 45 studies complying with the inclusion criteria was 
evaluated. A total of 3715 patients were included in the study. Of the 3010 
patients whose gender information was available, 55% were women and 45% were 
men; the weighted age average given explicitly in the studies was 42.14±0.67. 
The treatment lasted for 14 days in 42 studies, for 7 days in six studies, and 
for 10 days in 1 study. The eradication rates evaluated according to the ITT and 
PP analyses were 60% (95% CI: 56%-63%) and 57% (95% CI: 51%-62%), respectively. 
The rates for 7 days of treatment were 57% (95% CI: 46%-68%) and 60% (95% CI: 
51%-67%) and for 14 days of treatment were 60% (95% CI: 56%-63%) and 56% (95% 
CI: 50%-62%), respectively. The ITT eradication rate of the only 10-day study 
was 78% (95% CI: 66%-86%). In the meta-regression analysis, the treatment 
duration, PPI, age, and gender ratio (women/men) used for the ITT analysis had 
no effect. The gender ratio and age were not considered in this analysis because 
they were not clearly stated in studies using the PP analysis. The duration of 
treatment and the PPI used had no effect.
CONCLUSION: A systematic meta-analysis of studies conducted during the period 
2004-2013 in Turkey revealed that the rate of first-line Hp eradication using 
STT was unacceptably low, and the duration of treatment and PPI used made no 
difference.

DOI: 10.5152/tjg.2019.18693
PMCID: PMC6505649
PMID: 31060997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: The author has no conflict 
of interest to declare.


296. Nihon Rinsho. 2013 Aug;71(8):1413-7.

[Helicobacter pylori eradication therapy in children].

[Article in Japanese]

Nakayama Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Shinshu University School of Medicine

Helicobacter pylori eradication therapy is recommended in the presence of H. 
pylori positive peptic ulcer disease and refractory iron deficiency anemia in 
adolescents among Japanese children. The eradication rate of the first-line 
triple therapy with a PPI+ amoxicillin+clarithromycin is falling to about 70%. A 
triple therapy with a PPI+ amoxicillin+metronidazole is acceptable as the 
second-line therapy. According to recent reports, the clarithromycin resistance 
rate is more than 40% in Japanese children. Antibiotics susceptibility testing 
before first-line therapies is taken into account. There is no available data 
about sequential therapy in Japanese children. The 13C-urea breath test and/or 
stool antigen test are recommended for confirmation of eradication at least 4 to 
8 weeks following completion of therapy.

PMID: 23967672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Pediatrics. 2010 Feb;125(2):214-20. doi: 10.1542/peds.2009-1115. Epub 2010 Jan 
25.

Management of acute otitis media after publication of the 2004 AAP and AAFP 
clinical practice guideline.

Coco A(1), Vernacchio L, Horst M, Anderson A.

Author information:
(1)Lancaster General Hospital, Lancaster General Research Institute, 555 N Duke 
St, Lancaster, PA 17604, USA. ascoco@lancastergeneral.org

Comment in
    Pediatrics. 2010 Feb;125(2):384-6. doi: 10.1542/peds.2009-3208.

OBJECTIVES: Observation without initial antibiotic therapy was accepted as an 
option for acute otitis media (AOM) management in the 2004 American Academy of 
Pediatrics and American Academy of Family Physicians clinical practice 
guideline. The guideline also recommended amoxicillin as the first-line 
treatment for most children, and analgesic treatment to reduce pain if it was 
present. Our objective was to compare the management of AOM after publication of 
the 2004 guideline.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We analyzed the National Ambulatory Medical Care Survey, 
2002-2006 (N = 1114), which occurred in US physicians' offices. The patients 
were children aged 6 months to 12 years who were diagnosed with AOM. The time 
comparisons were the 30-month periods before and after the guideline. The main 
outcome was the encounter rate at which no antibiotic-prescribing was reported. 
Secondary outcomes were the identification of factors associated with encounters 
at which no antibiotic-prescribing was reported and antibiotic- and 
analgesic-prescribing rates.
RESULTS: The rate of AOM encounters at which no antibiotic-prescribing was 
reported did not change after guideline publication (11%-16%; P = .103). 
Independent predictors of an encounter at which no antibiotic-prescribing was 
reported were the absence of ear pain, absence of reported fever, and receipt of 
an analgesic prescription. After guideline publication, the rate of 
amoxicillin-prescribing increased (40%-49%; P = .039), the rate of 
amoxicillin/clavulanate-prescribing decreased (23%-16%; P = .043), the rate of 
cefdinir-prescribing increased (7%-14%; P = .004), and the rate of 
analgesic-prescribing increased (14%-24%; P = .038).
CONCLUSIONS: Although management of AOM without antibiotics has not increased 
after the publication of the 2004 American Academy of Pediatrics and American 
Academy of Family Physicians clinical practice guideline, children who did not 
receive antibiotics were more likely to have mild infections. In accordance with 
the guideline, the prescribing of amoxicillin and analgesics has increased. 
Contrary to the guideline, the prescribing of amoxicillin/clavulanate has 
decreased, whereas the prescribing of cefdinir has increased.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2009-1115
PMID: 20100746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. BMC Pediatr. 2022 Dec 13;22(1):712. doi: 10.1186/s12887-022-03767-4.

Predictors of time to recovery from uncomplicated severe acute malnutrition 
among 6-59 months children treated in out patient treatment in health posts of 
Nagele Arsi district: a retrospective cohort study.

Tsegaye A(1), Lencha B(2), Kumsa K(3).

Author information:
(1)Basaku Health Center, Nagelle Arsi District, Oromia, Ethiopia.
(2)Department of Public Health, Madda Walabu University, Shashemene, Oromia, 
Ethiopia. lenibikimule@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Public Health, Madda Walabu University, Shashemene, Oromia, 
Ethiopia.

BACKGROUND: Access to outpatient therapeutic feeding programs (OTP) for all 
children who have uncomplicated severe acute malnutrition (SAM) remains a global 
public health priority. Identifying predictors that determine time-to-recovery 
from severe acute malnutrition optimize therapeutic success. However, reliable 
evidence on the determinants of time to recovery at health posts was not 
available in Nagele Arsi district of South Ethiopia.
OBJECTIVE: This study was aimed to identify determinants of time-to-recovery 
from uncomplicated SAM among children aged (6-59) months treated at an OTP in 
health posts of Nagele Arsi district, Southern Ethiopia.
METHODS: Institutional based retrospective cohort study was conducted among 357 
children treated in Negele Arsi district from July1, 2018 to June 30, 2020. The 
children were selected using simple random sampling from 20 health posts. SAM 
treatment outcomes were compared against international SPHERE standards. The 
average time-to-recovery was estimated using Kaplan-Meier survival curve and the 
independent predictors of time to recovery were determined using multivariable 
Cox-proportional hazard model. The strength of the association was done using 
adjusted hazard ratio (AHR) with 95% confidence intervals. Statistical 
significance was declared at p value < 0.05. The results were presented by text, 
tables and figures.
RESULT: A total of 284 (79.6%) children recovered during follow up. The mean 
weight gain for recovered children was 4.7 + 2.4 g/kg/day. The median 
time-to-recovery was 44 days 95% CI (42.7-45.3). Children who received 
Amoxicillin, AHR =2.574, 95% CI (1.879-3.525); de-wormed, AHR = 1.519, 95% CI 
(1.137-2.031); received Vitamin A, AHR = 2.518, 95% CI, (1.921-3.301) and new 
admissions, AHR = 1.823, 95%CI, (1.224-2.715) were more likely to recover. 
However, those who admitted with non-edema, AHR = 0.256, 95% CI, (0.189-0.346); 
had cough at admission, AHR = 0.513, 95 CI, (0.366-0.719) and had diarrhea at 
admission AHR = 0.5, 95% CI, 0.5 (0.350-0.712) were less likely to recover.
CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATION: The recovery rate was within the acceptable 
ranges of International Sphere Standards. Those children who had cough and 
diarrhea should be given due attention from health extension workers and program 
planners. Appropriate provision of routine medication and timely intervention of 
co-morbidity are needed to increase chance of early recovery.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12887-022-03767-4
PMCID: PMC9746122
PMID: 36514008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


299. Helicobacter. 2010 Apr;15(2):143-7. doi: 10.1111/j.1523-5378.2010.00747.x.

Comparison of the efficacy of the two tetracycline-containing sequential therapy 
regimens for the eradication of Helicobacter pylori: 5 days versus 14 days 
amoxicillin.

Cetinkaya ZA(1), Sezikli M, Güzelbulut F, Coşgun S, Düzgün S, Kurdaş OO.

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterohepatology Department, Haydarpaşa Numune Research and Education 
Hospital, Istanbul, Turkey. zakkan2000@yahoo.com

AIM: To compare the efficacy of 14-day and 5-day amoxicillin treatment on the 
eradication rate during tetracycline containing sequential H. pylori therapy, 
and also to compare the eradication rate of this regimen with those used in 
similar studies performed in Turkey.
METHOD: This study included 112 patients infected with H. pylori that were 
randomized into 2 groups. In group A, patients (n = 56) received pantoprazole 
(40 mg BID) and amoxicillin (1 g BID) for 5 days, followed by pantoprazole (40 
mg BID), tetracycline (500 mg QID), and metronidazole (500 mg TID) for the 
remaining 9 days. In group B, patients (n = 56) received pantoprazole (40 mg 
BID) and amoxicillin (1 g BID) for 5 days, followed by pantoprazole (40 mg BID), 
tetracycline (500 mg QID), metronidazole (500 mg TID), and amoxicillin (1 g BID) 
for the remaining 9 days. Eradication rates were calculated using both 
intention-to-treat (ITT) and per-protocol (PP) analyses.
RESULTS: In all, 112 patients were subjected to ITT analysis and 109 patients 
completed the study. In group A, H. pylori eradication was achieved in 46 
(82.1%) of the 56 patients included in the ITT analysis and in 46 (83.6%) of the 
55 patients included in the PP analysis. In group B, H. pylori eradication was 
achieved in 44 (78.57%) of the 56 patients included in the ITT analysis and in 
44 (81.48%) of the 54 patients included in the PP analysis (Table 2). The 
eradication rates were not statistically significant between the 2 groups (p > 
.005).
CONCLUSION: Extended duration of amoxicillin treatment during the entire 
tetracycline containing sequential therapy period did not improve the H. pylori 
eradication rate. As a consequence, sequential therapy using 5-day amoxicillin 
is an acceptable first-line therapy option for the eradication of H. pylori in 
Turkey.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1523-5378.2010.00747.x
PMID: 20402816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Am J Trop Med Hyg. 2020 Mar;102(3):658-666. doi: 10.4269/ajtmh.19-0367.

Treatment of Sick Children Seeking Care in the Private Health Sector in Uganda: 
A Cluster Randomized Trial.

Mbonye AK(1), Buregyeya E(2), Rutebemberwa E(3), Lal S(4), Clarke SE(4), Hansen 
KS(5), Magnussen P(6), LaRussa P(7).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, College of Health Sciences, Makerere University, 
Kampala, Uganda.
(2)Department of Disease Control and Environmental Health, School of Public 
Health, Makerere University, Kampala, Uganda.
(3)Department of Health Policy, Planning and Management, School of Public 
Health, Makerere University, Kampala, Uganda.
(4)Department of Disease Control, London School of Hygiene and Tropical 
Medicine, London, United Kingdom.
(5)Department of Public Health and Centre for Health Economics and Policy, 
University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(6)Institute for Immunology and Microbiology, Centre for Medical Parasitology, 
University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(7)Department of Pediatrics, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia 
University, New York, New York.

The main objective of this study was to assess whether training of private 
health providers and community sensitization on the importance of effective 
prompt care seeking and the need for referral could improve treatment of sick 
children in the private health sector in Uganda. Private providers were trained 
to diagnose and treat sick children according to the integrated community case 
management (iCCM) guidelines. In the control arm, routine services were offered. 
The outcomes were seeking care within 24 hours of onset of symptoms and 
appropriate case management for malaria, pneumonia, and diarrhea among children 
aged < 5 years. A total of 10,809 sick children (5,955 in the intervention arm 
and 4,854 in the control arm) presented for diagnosis and treatment. The 
percentage seeking care within 24 hours of onset of symptoms was 45.4% (95% CI 
36.0-48.8) in the intervention arm versus 43.9% (95% CI 38.1-49.8) in the 
control arm (P = 0.04). Adherence to malaria rapid diagnostic test (mRDT) 
results was high, with 1,459 (94.3%) in the intervention arm versus 1,402 
(83.0%) in the control arm (P = 0.04). Appropriate treatment of mRDT-positive 
children with artemisinin-based combination therapy was seen in 93.1% (95% CI 
88.5-97.7) in the intervention arm versus 85.1% (95% CI 78.6-91.7) in the 
control arm (P = 0.03). Adherence to iCCM guidelines was very high: 89.1% of 
children with diarrhea in the intervention arm and 80.4% in the control arm were 
given oral rehydration salts and zinc (P = 0.01). Of the children with a 
respiratory rate > 40 breaths/minute, 1,596 (85.1%) in the intervention arm 
versus 104 (54.5%) in the control arm were given amoxicillin (P = 0.01). In 
conclusion, the intervention improved treatment of malaria, pneumonia, and 
diarrhea because of provider adherence to treatment guidelines. The policy 
implications of these findings are to initiate a dialogue at district and 
national levels on how to scale up the intervention in the private sector. 
NCT02450630 registered with ClinicalTrials.gov: May 9, 2015.

DOI: 10.4269/ajtmh.19-0367
PMCID: PMC7056412
PMID: 31971139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


301. Helicobacter. 2012 Apr;17(2):121-6. doi: 10.1111/j.1523-5378.2011.00924.x.

Low efficacy of clarithromycin including sequential regimens for Helicobacter 
pylori infection.

Kadayifci A(1), Uygun A, Kilciler G, Kantarcioglu M, Kara M, Ozcan A, Emer O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Gaziantep, 
Gaziantep, Turkey. kadayifci@gantep.edu.tr

BACKGROUND: Sequential treatment for Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) appears to 
achieve a better eradication rate than triple therapy. However, most of the data 
have been reported from the Italy, and studies from different population are 
needed before it is recommended in clinical practice. The present study aimed to 
assess and compare the efficacy of two separate clarithromycin including 
sequential regimens in Turkey which is well known with high clarithromycin and 
metronidazole resistance to H. pylori.
METHODS: Consecutive H. pylori -positive patients with non-ulcer dyspepsia were 
randomly allocated to one of the two sequential regimens; the first group was 
given lansoprazole 30 mg b.i.d. plus amoxicillin 1 g b.i.d. for the first week, 
followed by lansoprazole 30 mg b.i.d., clarithromycin 500 mg b.i.d., and 
metronidazole 500 mg t.i.d. for the second week (LA-CM). The second arm was 
given the same regimen but tetracycline500 g q.i.d. instead of metronidazole 
(LA-CT). H. pylori was detected with urea breath test (UBT) and histology before 
enrollment. UBT was repeated at 6th weeks after treatment.
RESULTS: A total of 200 patients were enrolled in groups and 179 of them 
completed their protocols. The cumulative per protocol ("PP") and 
intention-to-treat ("ITT") eradication rates were 74.3% and 66.5% in all 
patients, respectively. Both "PP" (78.2% vs 70.1%) and "ITT" (72% vs 61%) 
eradication rates were better in LA-CT group than LA-CM group, but the 
differences were not statistically significant (p > .05). Both regimens were 
well tolerated, and the incidence of adverse effects was comparable.
CONCLUSION: Two weeks clarithromycin including sequential regimens with 
metronidazole or tetracycline were not achieved acceptable eradication rates in 
Turkey.

© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1523-5378.2011.00924.x
PMID: 22404442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Pak J Med Sci. 2016 Jul-Aug;32(4):999-1004. doi: 10.12669/pjms.324.9855.

Antimicrobial stewardship program in a Malaysian district hospital: First year 
experience.

Sing DY(1), Boo YL(2), Mukhlis R(3), Chin PW(4), Hoo FK(5).

Author information:
(1)Diana Yap Fui Sing, Master of Clinical Pharmacy (UKM). Hospital Enche' Besar 
Hajjah Khalsom, Jalan Kota Tinggi, 86000 Kluang, Johor, Malaysia.
(2)Dr. Yang Liang Boo, MRCP (UK). Hospital Enche' Besar Hajjah Khalsom, Jalan 
Kota Tinggi, 86000 Kluang, Johor, Malaysia.
(3)Roshalina Mukhlis, Bachelor of Pharmacy (Hons) (UKM). Hospital Enche' Besar 
Hajjah Khalsom, Jalan Kota Tinggi, 86000 Kluang, Johor, Malaysia.
(4)Dr. Pek Woon Chin, MRCP (UK). Hospital Enche' Besar Hajjah Khalsom, Jalan 
Kota Tinggi, 86000 Kluang, Johor, Malaysia.
(5)Dr. Fan Kee Hoo, MRCP (UK). Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, 
Universiti Putra Malaysia, Serdang, Malaysia.

BACKGROUNDS & OBJECTIVE: Antimicrobial resistance is an alarming public health 
threat that requires urgent global solution. Implementation of antimicrobial 
stewardship program (ASP) is an essential practice element for healthcare 
institutions in gate-keeping judicious antimicrobial use. This study highlighted 
the development, first year experience, and result of the implementation of ASP 
utilizing persuasive and restrictive approaches in a Malaysian district 
hospital.
METHODS: An observational study was conducted between January 2015 to December 
2015 on implementation of ASP among hospitalized inpatients age 12 years old and 
above.
RESULTS: Recommendations were provided for 60% of cases (110 patients) with the 
average acceptance rate of 83.33%. Majority of the interventions were to stop 
the antimicrobial therapy (30.3%), and the most common audited antimicrobials 
was Piperacillin/Tazobactam (25.5%), followed by Meropenem (11.82%), 
Amoxicillin/Clavulanate and Vancomycin (8.18%) respectively. The concordance 
rate towards authorization policy was increased in 2015 (71.59% of cases) as 
compared before the implementation of ASP in 2014 (60.6% of cases). Restrictive 
enforcement under ASP had been shown to improve significantly adherence rate 
towards antimicrobials authorization policy (p-value: 0.004).
CONCLUSION: ASP was successfully implemented in a district hospital. Future 
studies on its clinical outcomes are important to evaluate its effectiveness as 
well as focus on the improvement to the pre-existing strategies and measures.

DOI: 10.12669/pjms.324.9855
PMCID: PMC5017119
PMID: 27648056


303. Br J Clin Pharmacol. 2012 Jan;73(1):140-3. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2125.2011.04048.x.

Effectiveness of three times daily lansoprazole/amoxicillin dual therapy for 
Helicobacter pylori infection in Korea.

Kim SY(1), Jung SW, Kim JH, Koo JS, Yim HJ, Park JJ, Chun HJ, Lee SW, Choi JH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine, 
Korea University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

AIM: We compared three times daily dual therapy with standard triple therapy for 
effectiveness and safety in H. pylori infection.
METHODS: Two hundred and four H. pylori positive patients with peptic ulcer were 
randomly assigned to one of two regimens: (i) triple therapy with amoxicillin, 
clarithromycin and lansoprazole twice daily for 2 weeks or (ii) dual therapy 
with amoxicillin and lansoprazole three times daily for 2 weeks. The success of 
eradication was evaluated 4 to 5 weeks after completing treatment.
RESULTS: The eradication rate was 82.8% in the triple therapy group and 78.4% in 
the dual therapy group by per protocol analysis. This difference was not 
significant (P= 0.573). Adverse events were more frequent in the triple therapy 
group than in the dual therapy group (P= 0.002).
CONCLUSIONS: Because dual therapy had fewer side effects than triple therapy and 
a similar eradication rate, dual therapy may provide an acceptable alternative 
first line therapy for H. pylori eradication in Korea.

© 2011 The Authors. British Journal of Clinical Pharmacology © 2011 The British 
Pharmacological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2125.2011.04048.x
PMCID: PMC3248264
PMID: 21689141 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Helicobacter. 2009 Dec;14(6):520-4. doi: 10.1111/j.1523-5378.2009.00720.x.

The modified sequential treatment regimen containing levofloxacin for 
Helicobacter pylori eradication in Turkey.

Aydin A(1), Oruc N, Turan I, Ozutemiz O, Tuncyurek M, Musoglu A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Medical School, Ege University, Izmir, 
Turkey. ahmet.aydin@ege.edu.tr

BACKGROUND: Eradication rates of Helicobacter pylori have declined to 
unacceptable levels in recent years. New and effective treatment options are 
warranted both as a first and second line treatment.
AIM: To test an effectiveness of modified sequential therapy with levofloxacin 
for H. pylori eradication in Turkey.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Helicobacter pylori infected dyspeptic patients were 
included to the study. Subjects were treated with modified sequential therapy 
consisting of rabeprazole 20 mg b.i.d. and amoxicillin 1 g b.i.d., for 7 days 
followed by rabeprazole 20 mg b.i.d, levofloxacin 500 mg q.d. and metronidazole 
500 mg b.i.d for the remaining 7 days.
RESULTS: Sixty-three treatment naive patients and 37 previous treatment failures 
were enrolled to the study (59 F, 41 M, age: 21-80 years). There was five drop 
out. Helicobacter pylori eradication was achieved in 80 patients, 
intention-to-treat (ITT): 80% (95% CI: 71-87%) and per-protocol (PP): 84.2% (95% 
CI: 75-91%), totally. In treatment naive patients ITT and PP eradication rates 
were 82.5% (95% CI: 71-91%), and 86.7% (95% CI: 75-94%), respectively. As a 
second line treatment eradication was successful in ITT 75.7%.(95% CI: 59-88%), 
and PP 80% (95% CI: 63-92%).Mild side effects were reported by 8 patients 
(8.4%).
CONCLUSIONS: Sequential therapy using "rabeprazole and amoxicillin 7 days 
followed by rabeprazole, metronidazole and levofloxacin for 7 days" is a new 
regimen with acceptable eradication rates in naïve patients in Turkey. Further 
modifications in the dose or duration of this new sequential therapy might 
increase its effectiveness as both first and second line treatment.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1523-5378.2009.00720.x
PMID: 19889069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Antibiotics (Basel). 2021 Jul 20;10(7):883. doi: 10.3390/antibiotics10070883.

Nationwide Assessment of Water Quality in Rivers across Lebanon by Quantifying 
Fecal Indicators Densities and Profiling Antibiotic Resistance of Escherichia 
coli.

Dagher LA(1), Hassan J(2), Kharroubi S(1), Jaafar H(3), Kassem II(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition and Food Sciences, Faculty of Agricultural and Food 
Sciences, American University of Beirut (AUB), Beirut 1107 2020, Lebanon.
(2)Center for Food Safety, Department of Food Science and Technology, University 
of Georgia, 1109 Experiment Street, Griffin, GA 30223, USA.
(3)Department of Agriculture, Faculty of Agricultural and Food Sciences, 
American University of Beirut (AUB), Beirut 1107 2020, Lebanon.

The use of contaminated water has been associated with severe disease outbreaks. 
Due to widespread pollution with untreated sewage, concerns have been raised 
over water quality in Lebanon, a country with well-documented challenges in 
infrastructure. Here, we evaluated the water quality of major rivers in Lebanon 
by quantifying the densities of fecal indicator bacteria (fecal coliforms and 
Escherichia coli). Additionally, we assessed the dissemination of 
antibiotic-resistant E. coli in river water. Composite water samples (n = 132) 
were collected from fourteen rivers, and 378 E. coli were isolated and analyzed. 
Fecal coliforms and E. coli were detected in 96.29% and 95.5% of the samples, 
respectively. Additionally, 73.48-61.3% and 31.81% of the samples exceeded the 
microbiological acceptability standards for irrigation and the fecal coliform 
limit for recreational activities, respectively. The E. coli exhibited 
resistance to ampicillin (40% of isolates), amoxicillin + clavulanic acid (42%), 
cefepime (4%), cefotaxime (14%), cefalexin (46%), cefixime (17%), doripenem 
(0.3%), imipenem (0.5%), gentamicin (6%), kanamycin (9%), streptomycin (35%), 
tetracycline (35%), ciprofloxacin (10%), norfloxacin (7%), 
trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (32%), and chloramphenicol (13%). Notably, 45.8% 
of the isolates were classified as multidrug resistant (MDR). Our results 
highlight the need to urgently address fecal pollution and the dissemination of 
antibiotic resistance in Lebanese rivers.

DOI: 10.3390/antibiotics10070883
PMCID: PMC8300662
PMID: 34356804

Conflict of interest statement: We declare no conflict of interest.


306. PLoS One. 2014 Jun 13;9(6):e98610. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0098610. 
eCollection 2014.

Stakeholders' perceptions of integrated community case management by community 
health workers: a post-intervention qualitative study.

Buchner DL(1), Brenner JL(1), Kabakyenga J(2), Teddy K(3), Maling S(2), Barigye 
C(4), Nettel-Aguirre A(2), Singhal N(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada.
(2)Faculty of Medicine, Mbrara University of Science and Technology, Mbrara 
District, Mbrara, Uganda.
(3)Healthy Child Uganda, Mbrara District, Mbrara, Uganda.
(4)Ministry of Health, Government of Uganda, Kampala, Uganda.

BACKGROUND: Integrated community case management (iCCM) involves delivery of 
simple medicines to children with pneumonia, diarrhea and/or malaria by 
community health workers (CHWs). Between 2010 and 2012, an iCCM intervention 
trial was implemented by Healthy Child Uganda. This study used qualitative tools 
to assess whether project stakeholders perceived that iCCM improved access to 
care for children under five years of age.
METHODS: The intervention involved training and equipping 196 CHWs in 98 study 
villages in one sub-county in Uganda in iCCM. During the eight-month 
intervention, CHWs assessed sick children, provided antimalarials (coartem) for 
fever, antibiotics (amoxicillin) for cough and fast breathing, oral rehydration 
salts/zinc for diarrhea, and referred very sick children to health facilities. 
In order to examine community perceptions and acceptability of iCCM, 
post-intervention focus groups and key respondent interviews involving 
caregivers, health workers, CHWs and local leaders were carried out by 
experienced facilitators using semi-structured interview guides. Data were 
analyzed using thematic analysis techniques.
RESULTS: Respondents reported increased access to health care for children as a 
result of iCCM. Access was reportedly closer to home, available more hours in a 
day, and the availability of CHWs was perceived as more reliable. CHW care was 
reported to be trustworthy and caring. Families reported saving money especially 
due to reduced transportation costs, and less time away from home. Respondents 
also perceived better health outcomes. Linkages between health facilities and 
communities were reportedly improved by the iCCM intervention due to the 
presence of trained CHWs in the community.
CONCLUSIONS: iCCM delivered by CHWs may improve access to health care and is 
acceptable to families. Policymakers should continue to seek opportunities to 
implement and support iCCM, particularly in remote communities where there are 
health worker shortages.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0098610
PMCID: PMC4057118
PMID: 24927074 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


307. Braz J Otorhinolaryngol. 2008 May-Jun;74(3):337-41. doi: 
10.1016/s1808-8694(15)30565-6.

Antibiotic use in post-adenotonsillectomy morbidity: a randomized prospective 
study.

Guerra MM(1), Garcia E, Pilan RR, Rapoport PB, Campanholo CB, Martinelli EO.

Author information:
(1)FMABC, Brazil.

Tonsillectomy with or without adenoidectomy still is one of the most commonly 
performed surgical procedures in the world, mostly in the pediatric population.
AIM: to study the impact of amoxicillin for 7 days in post-adenotonsillectomy 
recovery, comparing results with a control group.
STUDY TYPE: prospective, randomized, controlled study with 120 patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: the patients were randomized according to surgery time to 
receive 7 days of amoxicillin associated with pain killers, or analgesic alone. 
During the first week of postoperative, we assessed the level of pain, oral 
intake acceptance, nausea and vomits, fever and return to daily activities.
RESULTS: It was only in the fourth post-operative day that the group receiving 
antibiotic agents showed a statistically significant difference as far as pain 
is concerned. There was no difference between the two groups for other data 
analyzed.
CONCLUSION: considering the results from our study and reviewing the literature 
on the use of antibiotic agents, we agree that there is no improvement in 
patient recovery after adenotonsillectomy with the use of amoxicillin for 7 days 
in the postoperative.

DOI: 10.1016/s1808-8694(15)30565-6
PMCID: PMC9442118
PMID: 18661005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. N Engl J Med. 1999 Jul 29;341(5):305-11. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199907293410501.

A double-blind comparison of empirical oral and intravenous antibiotic therapy 
for low-risk febrile patients with neutropenia during cancer chemotherapy.

Freifeld A(1), Marchigiani D, Walsh T, Chanock S, Lewis L, Hiemenz J, Hiemenz S, 
Hicks JE, Gill V, Steinberg SM, Pizzo PA.

Author information:
(1)National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1999 Jul 29;341(5):362-3. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199907293410509.
    N Engl J Med. 2000 Jan 6;342(1):55; author reply 56-8. doi: 
10.1056/NEJM200001063420111.
    N Engl J Med. 2000 Jan 6;342(1):55-6; author reply 56-8.
    N Engl J Med. 2000 Jan 6;342(1):56; author reply 56-8.
    N Engl J Med. 2000 Jan 6;342(1):56; author reply 56-8.

BACKGROUND: Among patients with fever and neutropenia during chemotherapy for 
cancer who have a low risk of complications, oral administration of empirical 
broad-spectrum antibiotics may be an acceptable alternative to intravenous 
treatment.
METHODS: We conducted a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of 
patients (age, 5 to 74 years) who had fever and neutropenia during chemotherapy 
for cancer. Neutropenia was expected to be present for no more than 10 days in 
these patients, and they had to have no other underlying conditions. Patients 
were assigned to receive either oral ciprofloxacin plus amoxicillin-clavulanate 
or intravenous ceftazidime. They were hospitalized until fever and neutropenia 
resolved.
RESULTS: A total of 116 episodes were included in each group (84 patients in the 
oral-therapy group and 79 patients in the intravenous-therapy group). The mean 
neutrophil counts at admission were 81 per cubic millimeter and 84 per cubic 
millimeter, respectively; the mean duration of neutropenia was 3.4 and 3.8 days, 
respectively. Treatment was successful without the need for modifications in 71 
percent of episodes in the oral-therapy group and 67 percent of episodes in the 
intravenous-therapy group (difference between groups, 3 percent; 95 percent 
confidence interval, -8 percent to 15 percent; P=0.48). Treatment was considered 
to have failed because of the need for modifications in the regimen in 13 
percent and 32 percent of episodes, respectively (P<0.001) and because of the 
patient's inability to tolerate the regimen in 16 percent and 1 percent of 
episodes, respectively (P<0.001). There were no deaths. The incidence of 
intolerance of the oral antibiotics was 16 percent, as compared with 8 percent 
for placebo (P=0.07).
CONCLUSIONS: In hospitalized low-risk patients who have fever and neutropenia 
during cancer chemotherapy, empirical therapy with oral ciprofloxacin and 
amoxicillin-clavulanate is safe and effective.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199907293410501
PMID: 10423464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. World J Gastroenterol. 2017 Mar 21;23(11):1980-1989. doi: 
10.3748/wjg.v23.i11.1980.

Effect of treatment failure on the CagA EPIYA motif in Helicobacter pylori 
strains from Colombian subjects.

Bustamante-Rengifo JA(1), Matta AJ(1), Pazos AJ(1), Bravo LE(1).

Author information:
(1)Javier Andres Bustamante-Rengifo, Department of Microbiology, School of Basic 
Science, Universidad del Valle, Cali 760043, Colombia.

AIM: To evaluate effect of treatment failure on cagA and vacA genotypes in 
Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) isolates from Colombia.
METHODS: One hundred and seventy-six participants infected with H. pylori from 
Colombia were treated during 14 d with the triple-standard therapy. Six weeks 
later, eradication was evaluated by 13C-Urea breath test. Patients with 
treatment failure were subjected to endoscopy control; biopsies obtained were 
used for histopathology and culture. DNA from H. pylori isolates was amplified 
using primers specific for cagA and vacA genes. The phylogenetic relationships 
among isolates obtained before and after treatment were established by 
conglomerate analysis based on random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) 
fingerprinting.
RESULTS: Treatment effectiveness was at 74.6%. Of the participants with 
treatment failure, 25 accepted subjected to a second endoscopy. Prevalence of 
post-treatment infection was 64% (16/25) and 40% (10/25) by histology and 
culture, respectively. Upon comparing the cagA and vacA genotypes found before 
and after therapy, multiple cagA genotypes (cagA-positive and cagA-negative) 
were found before treatment; in contrast, cagA-negative genotypes decreased 
after treatment. vacA s1m1 genotype was highly prevalent in patients before and 
after therapy. The 3'cagA region was successfully amplified in 95.5% (21/22) of 
the isolates obtained before and in 81.8% (18/22) of the isolates obtained after 
treatment. In the isolates obtained from patients with treatment failure, it was 
found that 72.7% (16/22) presented alterations in the number of EPIYA motifs, 
compared to isolates found before treatment.
CONCLUSION: Unsuccessful treatment limits colonization by low-virulence strains 
resulting in partial and selective eradication in mixed infections, and acts on 
the cagA-positive strains inducing genetic rearrangements in cagA variable 
region that produces a loss or gain of EPIYA repetitions.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v23.i11.1980
PMCID: PMC5360639
PMID: 28373764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict-of-interest statement: The authors 
declare that there is no conflict of interest related to this study.


310. Nutr Health. 2022 Nov 8:2601060221137102. doi: 10.1177/02601060221137102. Online 
ahead of print.

Recovery rate of severe acute malnourished children aged 6-59 months enrolled in 
outpatient therapeutic program at health posts of Central Gondar zone, Ethiopia.

Debie A(1), Kassie GM(2), Tsehay CT(1), Gebremedhin T(1), Mekonnen EG(3), Takele 
WW(4), Tazebew A(5), Demsie A(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Systems and Policy, Institute of Public Health, College 
of Medicine and Health Sciences, 128166University of Gondar, Gondar, Ethiopia.
(2)International Institute for Primary Healthcare - Ethiopia, Addis Ababa, 
Ethiopia.
(3)Department of Reproductive Health, Institute of Public Health, College of 
Medicine and Health Sciences, 128166University of Gondar, Gondar, Ethiopia.
(4)Department of Community Health Nursing, School of Nursing, College of 
Medicine and Health Sciences, 128166University of Gondar, Gondar, Ethiopia.
(5)Department of Pediatrics and Child Health, School of Medicine, College of 
Medicine and Health Sciences, 128166University of Gondar, Gondar, Ethiopia.
(6)Department of Pediatrics and Child Health Nursing, School of Nursing, College 
of Medicine and Health Sciences, 128166University of Gondar, Gondar, Ethiopia.

Background: Inadequate intake of food is one of the causes of malnutrition and 
has significant impact on the deaths of children in low-income countries. 
Community-based management of acute malnutrition was endorsed as a strategy to 
alleviate such burdens of child morbidity and mortality associated with 
malnutrition. Despite outpatient therapeutic program has decentralized to health 
post level, there is still a lack of adequate evidence regarding the recovery 
rates from outpatient therapeutic program at health post level in Ethiopia. In 
addition, the previous body of articles did not show the local situations, 
particularly the recovery rates of severe acute malnutrition children from 
outpatient therapeutic program in the central Gondar zone, Ethiopia. Aim: This 
study aimed to assess recovery rate and associated factors among severe acute 
malnourished children enrolled to outpatient therapeutic program at health posts 
of Central Gondar zone, Ethiopia. Methods: This study was a facility-based 
retrospective cross-sectional study conducted on 349 children who had managed 
for severe acute malnutrition in outpatient therapeutic program in Central 
Gondar zone from March to May 2021. A structured and pre-tested data extraction 
checklist adapted from literatures was used to collect the data. The children 
were selected using consecutive sampling from 39 health posts. Data were 
entered, cleaned, coded and analyzed using Stata version 14 software. Binary 
logistic regression was fitted to identify factors associated with recovery rate 
from outpatient therapeutic program. Adjusted odds ratio with 95% confidence 
interval and p-value <0.05 were used to declare the variables statistically 
significant with the recovery rate from outpatient therapeutic program. Results: 
The successful recovery rate for severe acute malnourished children admitted to 
outpatient therapeutic program was 74.2% (95% CI: 69.3, 78.6). False recovery, 
death, default, non-responder and medical transfer out rates were 12.6%, 8.6%, 
2.9%, 0.9% and 0.9%, respectively. In addition, the average weight gain of 
children was 4.4 g/kg/day for the length of stays, and the average length of 
stay was also 6.7 (±1.3SD) weeks. Breastfeeding status (AOR = 1.72; 95% CI: 
1.05, 2.83), antibiotics (amoxicillin) provision (AOR = 2.14; 95% CI: 1.07, 
4.25) and vitamin A supplementation (AOR = 1.93; 95% CI: 1.13, 3.30) were 
positively associated with the recovery rate of severe acute malnourished 
children admitted to outpatient therapeutic program. Conclusion: In this study, 
we found that the recovery, death and default rates were in the acceptable 
ranges of sphere standards. Therefore, health extension workers shall manage to 
shape service providers of outpatient therapeutic program with severe acute 
malnutrition management protocol. Special attention was also needed to build 
capacity of health extension workers to alleviate knowledge gaps on children 
enrolled to and discharge from outpatient therapeutic program at health posts. 
Dietary counselling is essentially required to improve maternal diets, which can 
affect the nutritional status of breastmilk.

DOI: 10.1177/02601060221137102
PMID: 36349360


311. J Am Acad Dermatol. 1999 Mar;40(3):433-5. doi: 10.1016/s0190-9622(99)70493-7.

Helicobacter pylori eradication treatment reduces the severity of rosacea.

Utaş S(1), Ozbakir O, Turasan A, Utaş C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, University of Erciyes School of Medicine, Kayseri, 
Turkey.

Comment in
    J Am Acad Dermatol. 2000 Mar;42(3):535-6. doi: 
10.1016/s0190-9622(00)90238-x.
    J Am Acad Dermatol. 2000 Mar;42(3):536-7. doi: 
10.1016/s0190-9622(00)90240-8.
    J Am Acad Dermatol. 2000 Mar;42(3):537-9. doi: 
10.1016/s0190-9622(00)90242-1.

BACKGROUND: A higher prevalence of Helicobacter pylori infection in rosacea 
patients than in healthy controls has been reported.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of H. pylori 
eradication therapy in patients with rosacea.
METHODS: Twenty-five rosacea patients and 87 age- and sex-matched healthy 
controls were included in this study. We detected IgG and IgA antibodies against 
H. pylori in both groups. An upper gastrointestinal endoscopy and a rapid urease 
test were performed on the 13 patients with rosacea who accepted this procedure. 
Amoxicillin 500 mg 3 times daily, metronidazole 500 mg 3 times daily, and 
bismuth subcitrate 300 mg 4 times daily were administered to patients positive 
for H. pylori. The severity of rosacea was scored before and after treatment.
RESULTS: There was no statistical difference in seropositivity in either group. 
In H. pylori-positive rosacea patients there was a significant decrease in the 
severity of rosacea at the end of the treatment as compared with the initial 
scores.
CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest that H. pylori may be involved in rosacea and 
that eradication treatment may be beneficial.

DOI: 10.1016/s0190-9622(99)70493-7
PMID: 10071314 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Dig Dis Sci. 2005 May;50(5):839-41. doi: 10.1007/s10620-005-2649-y.

Effectiveness of omeprazole- versus lansoprazole-based triple therapy for 
Helicobacter pylori eradication.

Niv Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Rabin Medical Center, Beilinson Campus, Petah 
Tiqva, Israel. yniv@clalit.org.il

Triple therapy with a proton pump inhibitor (PPI), amoxicillin, and 
clarithromycin is widely accepted for Helicobacter pylori eradication. The 
choice of PPI for triple therapy in Israel is arbitrary, with no preference for 
any one PPI except for economic considerations. Direct comparison between 
omeprazole and lansoprazole for efficacy of H. pylori eradication has never been 
performed in an Israeli poplulation. Based on the pharmacokinetic data, 
lansoprazole-based therapy may be a better alternative than omeprazole-based 
therapy. The aim of this study was to compare the effectiveness of triple 
therapy regimens with omeprazole (Losec, AstraZeneca; or Omeradex, Dexxon) or 
lansoprazole (TAP Pharmaceuticals) in eradicating H. pylori infection. The 
database of the biggest health insurance provider in Israel was reviewed for all 
patients who received 1 week of treatment with omeprazole (n = 1293) or 
lansoprazole (n = 85) with additional amoxicillin and clarithromycin for H. 
pylori eradication in 2002. All patients underwent the 13C-urea breath test 
(13CUBT) for validation of eradication. A negative 13CUBT result was noted in 
1026 of the patients treated with omeprazole (79.4%) and 61 treated with 
lansoprazole (71.8%). On logistic regression analysis, none of the confounding 
factors (sex, age, indication, chronic use of PPI, eradication protocol) were 
found to contribute to the discrimination between a negative (successful 
eradication) and a positive (failed eradication) 13CUBT. There is no 
statistically significant difference between omeprazole and lansoprazole as part 
of a PPI-based triple therapy for eradication of H. pylori.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-005-2649-y
PMID: 15906754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Caspian J Intern Med. 2016 Spring;7(2):78-81.

Addition of clidinium-C to the 14-day proton-pump inhibitor-based triple therapy 
for Helicobacter pylori eradication.

Seyyedmajidi M(1), Homapoor S(2), Zanganeh E(1), Dadjou M(1), Eskandari Nejad 
S(1), Tajik Galayeri MH(1), Vafaeimanesh J(2).

Author information:
(1)Golestan Research Center of Gastroenterology and Hepatology-GRCGH, Gorgan, 
Iran.
(2)Clinical Research Development Center, Qom University of Medical Sciences, 
Qom, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Triple therapy with a proton pump inhibitor and two antibiotics in 
Helicobacter pylori (HP) eradication is widely accepted, but this combination 
fails in a considerable number of cases. The aim of this study was to assess the 
effect of clidinium-C addition on HP eradication and to investigate the efficacy 
and safety of clidinium-C in prevention of drugs' side effects.
METHODS: A total of 200 histopathologically confirmed HP positive peptic ulcer 
enrolled in this study which were randomly assigned to two treatment groups: OAC 
(20 mg omeprazole bid, 1000 mg amoxicillin bid and 500 mg clarithromycin bid) 
and OAC + clidinium-C. The effect of treatment and adverse effects were compared 
6 weeks after completion of treatment. A13C-urea breath test was performed to 
confirm HP eradication.
RESULTS: A total of 184 patients (90 in group A and 94 in group B) completed the 
treatment protocols. HP eradication was achieved in 71.1% in OAC versus 72.3% in 
OCA+clidinium-C, (P=0.73). The frequencies of abdominal pain and stool 
abnormality, among the side effects recorded during the therapy period, were 
significantly lower in group B (OCA+clidinium-C) (P=0.01 and P=0.001, 
respectively).
CONCLUSION: Addition of clidinium-C to OCA triple therapy decreases abdominal 
pain and frequency of stool abnormalities without affecting HP eradication rate. 
Based on these findings addition of clidinium-C may increase patient's 
compliance.

PMCID: PMC4913708
PMID: 27386057


314. Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect Dis. 2004 Jun;23(6):445-55. doi: 
10.1007/s10096-004-1133-5. Epub 2004 May 20.

Rates of antimicrobial resistance among common bacterial pathogens causing 
respiratory, blood, urine, and skin and soft tissue infections in pediatric 
patients.

Jones ME(1), Karlowsky JA, Draghi DC, Thornsberry C, Sahm DF, Bradley JS.

Author information:
(1)Focus Technologies, Herndon, VA 20171, USA. mjones@focustechnologies.com

Antimicrobial resistance patterns among the principal bacterial pathogens from 
infections of the respiratory tract, blood, skin and soft tissue, and urinary 
tract of pediatric patients from the USA, Canada, Germany, France, and Italy 
were studied using the The Surveillance Network (TSN) database. Among 
Streptococcus pneumoniae isolates from respiratory tract infections, the 
prevalence of high-level penicillin resistance (MIC>/=2 microg/ml) ranged from 
1.1 (Italy) to 36.2% (USA); erythromycin resistance was higher, ranging from 
13.4 (Germany) to 63.8% (France). The prevalence of beta-lactamase-positive 
Haemophilus influenzae among isolates from lower respiratory tract infections 
ranged from <10 (Italy and Germany) to 38.4% (USA). Among isolates from blood 
and skin and soft tissue infections, the prevalence of methicillin-resistant 
Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) ranged from 7.2% (Canada and Germany) to 27.3% 
(Italy). The prevalence of Escherichia coli and Klebsiella pneumoniae with 
putative extended-spectrum beta-lactamases among isolates from blood, urinary 
tract, and skin and soft tissue infections ranged from 0 (Germany and France) to 
29.6% (Italy). With the exception of pseudomonal infections or infections with 
MRSA, amoxicillin-clavulanate retained moderate activity, whilst ceftriaxone and 
cefepime were the most effective broad-spectrum injectable agents. Meropenem was 
the most effective agent against Pseudomonas aeruginosa with <5% resistance. Low 
levels of resistance, along with acceptable safety profiles and the availability 
of convenient oral formulations, continue to support the use of ceftriaxone, 
cefepime, amoxicillin-clavulanate, and meropenem as viable options for the 
treatment of infections in pediatric patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s10096-004-1133-5
PMID: 15156358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. J Clin Med. 2019 Feb 6;8(2):199. doi: 10.3390/jcm8020199.

Rifabutin-Based Rescue Therapy for Helicobacter pylori Eradication: A Long-Term 
Prospective Study in a Large Cohort of Difficult-to-Treat Patients.

Ribaldone DG(1), Fagoonee S(2), Astegiano M(3), Durazzo M(4), Morgando A(5), 
Sprujevnik T(6), Giordanino C(7), Baronio M(8), De Angelis C(9), Saracco 
GM(10)(11), Pellicano R(12).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgical Sciences, University of Turin, 10123 Turin, Italy. 
davrib_1998@yahoo.com.
(2)Institute of Biostructure and Bioimaging (CNR) c/o Molecular Biotechnology 
Center, 10126 Turin, Italy. sharmila.fagoonee@unito.it.
(3)Unit of Gastroenterology, Molinette Hospital, 10123 Turin, Italy. 
marcoastegiano58@gmail.com.
(4)Department of Medical Sciences, University of Turin, 10123 Turin, Italy. 
marilena.durazzo@unito.it.
(5)Unit of Gastroenterology, Molinette Hospital, 10123 Turin, Italy. 
amorgando@cittadellasalute.to.it.
(6)Unit of Gastroenterology, Molinette Hospital, 10123 Turin, Italy. 
sprujevnik@yahoo.it.
(7)Unit of Gastroenterology, Molinette Hospital, 10123 Turin, Italy. 
chiaragiordanino@libero.it.
(8)Unit of Gastroenterology, Maria Vittoria Hospital, 10100 Turin, Italy. 
monica.baronio@aslto2.piemonte.it.
(9)Unit of Gastroenterology, Molinette Hospital, 10123 Turin, Italy. 
eusdeang@hotmail.com.
(10)Unit of Gastroenterology, Molinette Hospital, 10123 Turin, Italy. 
giorgiomaria.saracco@unito.it.
(11)Department of Medical Sciences, University of Turin, 10123 Turin, Italy. 
giorgiomaria.saracco@unito.it.
(12)Unit of Gastroenterology, Molinette Hospital, 10123 Turin, Italy. 
rinaldo_pellican@hotmail.com.

The most commonly used regimens fail to eradicate Helicobacter pylori (H. 
pylori) infection in 5⁻10% of patients. Those not cured with treatments based on 
amoxicillin, clarithromycin, nitroimidazoles, fluoroquinolones, bismuth or 
tetracycline have no other conventional options thereafter. In this prospective 
long-term monocentric study, patients who failed to eradicate H. pylori 
following treatment with all conventional antibiotics were included. All 
subjects were treated with rifabutin 150 mg, amoxicillin 1 g and a standard dose 
of proton pump inhibitor, twice daily for 14 days. A negative 13C-urea breath 
test was used four weeks after treatment completion as an index of H. pylori 
eradication. Three hundred and two patients were included. Fifty-four percent 
(164/302) had peptic ulcer disease while 45.7% (138/302) had gastritis or 
functional dyspepsia. Per-protocol eradication and intention-to-treat 
eradication were achieved in 72.7% and 71.5%, respectively. A univariate 
analysis showed that gender, ethnic background, smoking habits and familial 
history of gastric diseases were not predictive factors of response, while with 
multiple logistic regression analysis, the ethnic background (Italian) predicted 
a poor response in the second period of the study (2010⁻2017). In conclusion, 
this study on a large cohort of very difficult-to-treat patients showed that 
rifabutin-based rescue therapy is an acceptable and safe strategy after multiple 
eradication failures with conventional antibiotics.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm8020199
PMCID: PMC6406425
PMID: 30736338

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


316. J Periodontol. 1993 Oct;64(10):998-1007. doi: 10.1902/jop.1993.64.10.998.

Effects of a combination therapy to eliminate Porphyromonas gingivalis in 
refractory periodontitis.

Collins JG(1), Offenbacher S, Arnold RR.

Author information:
(1)Chapel Hill Dental Research Center, University of North Carolina.

This report describes the clinical and microbiological features of 30 refractory 
patients and their response to a combined local and systemic therapy at 6 weeks 
and 3 years following treatment. The refractory treatment protocol (RefTx) 
consisted of a 2-week regimen of amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium in 
conjunction with professional, intrasulcular delivery of povidone iodine, and 
chlorhexide mouthwash rinses b.i.d. Eighty-seven percent of the patients had 
favorable clinical responses to the RefTx and could be divided into 3 groups (A, 
B, C) based upon initial flora patterns and the shifts that occurred following 
treatment. Pretreatment prevalence of Porphyromonas gingivalis (P.g.) was 36.7%. 
The RefTx was effective in reducing P.g. below detection levels in 10 of the 11 
positive patients at P < 0.01; each of these 10 patients (Group A) demonstrated 
significant gain in attachment. Other black-pigmented Bacteroides species (OBP) 
were isolated from 70% of the patients at baseline. Nine of these patients did 
not harbor P.g., showed clinical improvement upon treatment, and were OBP 
negative following treatment (Group B). Group C patients (7) demonstrated 
clinical improvement with therapy and did not fit into either Group A or B based 
upon microbial patterns. Group D patients (4) did not show clinical improvement 
with 3 patients harboring either P.g. or OBP after treatment. The RefTx was 
effective at reducing probing pocket depth with a 56% decrease in the number of 
pockets greater than 6 mm at 6 weeks. This was accompanied by an overall gain of 
> or = 1 mm of probable attachment in 45% of all sites. The clinical effects of 
the RefTx were shown to persist at 34.3 months with an apparent attachment gain 
of > or = 1 mm in 41.2% of sites. These data suggest that P.g. and OBP are 
important pathogens in refractory periodontitis and that the RefTx protocol is 
an acceptable, non-invasive alternative for the management of these patients.

DOI: 10.1902/jop.1993.64.10.998
PMID: 8277411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Glob Health Sci Pract. 2017 Jun 27;5(2):202-216. doi: 10.9745/GHSP-D-16-00312. 
Print 2017 Jun 27.

Effect on Neonatal Mortality of Newborn Infection Management at Health Posts 
When Referral Is Not Possible: A Cluster-Randomized Trial in Rural Ethiopia.

Degefie Hailegebriel T(1), Mulligan B(2), Cousens S(3), Mathewos B(4), Wall 
S(5), Bekele A(4), Russell J(5), Sitrin D(5), Tensou B(4), Lawn J(3), de Graft 
Johnson J(5), Legesse H(6), Hailu S(7), Nigussie A(8), Worku B(9), Baqui A(10).

Author information:
(1)United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), New York, USA. tdegefie@yahoo.com.
(2)John Snow Research and Training Institute, Inc., Yangon, Myanmar.
(3)London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, UK.
(4)Save the Children International, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
(5)Save the Children, Washington, DC, USA.
(6)UNICEF, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
(7)World Health Organization, Windhoek, Namibia.
(8)Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Seattle, WA, USA.
(9)Ethiopian Pediatrics Society, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
(10)International Center for Maternal and Newborn Health, John Hopkins Bloomberg 
School of Public Health, Baltimore, MD, USA.

Comment in
    Glob Health Sci Pract. 2017 Jun 27;5(2):177-179. doi: 
10.9745/GHSP-D-17-00201.

BACKGROUND: The World Health Organization recently provided guidelines for 
outpatient treatment of possible severe bacterial infections (PSBI) in young 
infants, when referral to hospital is not feasible. This study evaluated newborn 
infection treatment at the most peripheral level of the health system in rural 
Ethiopia.
METHODS: We performed a cluster-randomized trial in 22 geographical clusters (11 
allocated to intervention, 11 to control). In both arms, volunteers and 
government-employed Health Extension Workers (HEWs) conducted home visits to 
pregnant and newly delivered mothers; assessed newborns; and counseled 
caregivers on prevention of newborn illness, danger signs, and care seeking. 
Volunteers referred sick newborns to health posts for further assessment; HEWs 
referred newborns with PSBI signs to health centers. In the intervention arm 
only, between July 2011 and June 2013, HEWs treated newborns with PSBI with 
intramuscular gentamicin and oral amoxicillin for 7 days at health posts when 
referral to health centers was not possible or acceptable to caregivers. 
Intervention communities were informed of treatment availability at health posts 
to encourage care seeking. Masking was not feasible. The primary outcome was 
all-cause mortality of newborns 2-27 days after birth, measured by household 
survey data. Baseline data were collected between June 2008 and May 2009; 
endline data, between February 2013 and June 2013. We sought to detect a 33% 
mortality reduction. Analysis was by intention to treat. (ClinicalTrials.gov 
registry: NCT00743691).
RESULTS: Of 1,011 sick newborns presenting at intervention health posts, 576 
(57%) were identified by HEWs as having at least 1 PSBI sign; 90% refused 
referral and were treated at the health post, with at least 79% completing the 
antibiotic regimen. Estimated treatment coverage at health posts was in the 
region of 50%. Post-day 1 neonatal mortality declined more in the intervention 
arm (17.9 deaths per 1,000 live births at baseline vs. 9.4 per 1,000 at endline) 
than the comparison arm (14.4 per 1,000 vs. 11.2 per 1,000, respectively). After 
adjusting for baseline mortality and region, the estimated post-day 1 mortality 
risk ratio was 0.83, but the result was not statistically significant (95% 
confidence interval, 0.55 to 1.24; P=.33).
INTERPRETATION: When referral to higher levels of care is not possible, HEWs can 
deliver outpatient antibiotic treatment of newborns with PSBI, but estimated 
treatment coverage in a rural Ethiopian setting was only around 50%. While our 
data suggest a mortality reduction consistent with that which might be expected 
at this level of coverage, they do not provide conclusive results.

© Hailegebriel et al.

DOI: 10.9745/GHSP-D-16-00312
PMCID: PMC5487084
PMID: 28611102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Am J Infect Control. 2013 May;41(5):438-42. doi: 10.1016/j.ajic.2012.05.023. 
Epub 2012 Sep 11.

Haemophilus influenzae as an airborne contamination in child day care centers.

Lis DO(1), Górny RL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biohazards and Immunoallergology, Institute of Occupational 
Medicine and Environmental Health, Sosnowiec, Poland. d.lis@imp.sosnowiec.pl

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to assess the exposure of children to 
airborne Haemophilus influenzae in day care centers.
METHODS: Air samples were taken using an Andersen impactor in 32 rooms designed 
for children stay. The concentrations of airborne bacteria were calculated as 
colony forming units (CFU) (growing on trypticase soy agar) per cubic meter of 
air (CFU/m(3)). The compositions of bioaerosol were determined on blood 
trypticase soy agar and Haemophilus selective agar. Isolated strains were 
identified using API NH strips and apiweb software. The antibiotic resistance of 
H influenzae strains was determined by the disk diffusion method.
RESULTS: Compared with the proposed criteria for microbiologic quality of indoor 
air, the rooms were characterized by the very high bacterial contamination of 
the air. The prevailing component of bacterial aerosol was gram-positive cocci. 
Airborne H influenzae strains were found in 25% of the investigated rooms and 
were mostly classified as biotype II (33%).
CONCLUSION: It may be accepted that the exposure to airborne H influenzae is 
typical of child day care centers in contrast to indoor environments with older 
population. Child day care center contribute to the expansion of H influenzae in 
human population via air. Generally, airborne H influenzae isolates from the 
investigated child day care centers were susceptible to older antibiotics such 
as ampicillin and amoxicillin-clavulanic acid.

Copyright © 2013 Association for Professionals in Infection Control and 
Epidemiology, Inc. Published by Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajic.2012.05.023
PMID: 22980511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Lancet Microbe. 2024 Oct 5:100913. doi: 10.1016/S2666-5247(24)00152-6. Online 
ahead of print.

Exploring uncatalogued genetic variation in antimicrobial resistance gene 
families in Escherichia coli: an observational analysis.

Lipworth S(1), Crook D(2), Walker AS(3), Peto T(4), Stoesser N(2).

Author information:
(1)Nuffield Department of Medicine, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK; Oxford 
University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Oxford, UK. Electronic address: 
samuel.lipworth@ndm.ox.ac.uk.
(2)Nuffield Department of Medicine, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK; Oxford 
University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Oxford, UK; NIHR Oxford Biomedical 
Research Centre, Oxford University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, John 
Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford, UK; NIHR Health Protection Research Unit in 
Healthcare Associated Infections and Antimicrobial Resistance at University of 
Oxford in partnership with UKHSA, Oxford, UK.
(3)Nuffield Department of Medicine, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK; NIHR 
Oxford Biomedical Research Centre, Oxford University Hospitals NHS Foundation 
Trust, John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford, UK; NIHR Health Protection Research Unit 
in Healthcare Associated Infections and Antimicrobial Resistance at University 
of Oxford in partnership with UKHSA, Oxford, UK.
(4)Nuffield Department of Medicine, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK; Oxford 
University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Oxford, UK; NIHR Oxford Biomedical 
Research Centre, Oxford University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, John 
Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford, UK.

BACKGROUND: Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) in Escherichia coli is a global 
problem associated with substantial morbidity and mortality. AMR-associated 
genes are typically annotated based on similarity to variants in a curated 
reference database, with the implicit assumption that uncatalogued genetic 
variation within these is phenotypically unimportant. In this study, we 
evaluated the performance of the AMRFinder tool and, subsequently, the potential 
for discovering new AMR-associated gene families and characterising variation 
within existing ones to improve genotype-to-susceptibility phenotype predictions 
in E coli.
METHODS: In this cross-sectional study of international genome sequence data, we 
assembled a global dataset of 9001 E coli sequences from five publicly available 
data collections predominantly deriving from human bloodstream infections from: 
Norway, Oxfordshire (UK), Thailand, the UK, and Sweden. 8555 of these sequences 
had linked antibiotic susceptibility data. Raw reads were assembled using 
Shovill and AMR genes (relevant to amoxicillin-clavulanic acid, ampicillin, 
ceftriaxone, ciprofloxacin, gentamicin, piperacillin-tazobactam, and 
trimethoprim) extracted using the National Center for Biotechnology Information 
AMRFinder tool (using both default and strict [100%] coverage and identity 
filters). We assessed the predictive value of the presence of these genes for 
predicting resistance or susceptibility against US Food and Drug Administration 
thresholds for major and very major errors. Mash was used to calculate the 
similarity between extracted genes using Jaccard distances. We empirically 
reclustered extracted gene sequences into AMR-associated gene families (≥70% 
match) and antibiotic-resistance genes (ARGs; 100% match) and categorised these 
according to their frequency in the dataset. Accumulation curves were simulated 
and correlations between gene frequency in the Oxfordshire and other datasets 
calculated using the Spearman coefficient. Firth regression was used to model 
the association between the presence of blaTEM-1 variants and 
amoxicillin-clavulanic acid or piperacillin-tazobactam resistance, adjusted for 
the presence of other relevant ARGs.
FINDINGS: The performance of the AMRFinder database for genotype-to-phenotype 
predictions using strict 100% identity and coverage thresholds did not meet US 
Food and Drug Administration thresholds for any of the seven antibiotics 
evaluated. Relaxing filters to default settings improved sensitivity with a 
specificity cost. For all antibiotics, most explainable resistance was 
associated with the presence of a small number of genes. There was a proportion 
of resistance that could not be explained by known ARGs; this ranged from 75·1% 
for amoxicillin-clavulanic acid to 3·4% for ciprofloxacin. Only 18 199 (51·5%) 
of the 35 343 ARGs detected had a 100% identity and coverage match in the 
AMRFinder database. After empirically reclassifying genes at 100% nucleotide 
sequence identity, we identified 1042 unique ARGs, of which 126 (12·1%) were 
present ten times or more, 313 (30·0%) were present between two and nine times, 
and 603 (57·9%) were present only once. Simulated accumulation curves revealed 
that discovery of new (100% match) ARGs present more than once in the dataset 
plateaued relatively quickly, whereas new singleton ARGs were discovered even 
after many thousands of isolates had been included. We identified a strong 
correlation (Spearman coefficient 0·76 [95% CI 0·73-0·80], p<0·0001) between the 
number of times an ARG was observed in Oxfordshire and the number of times it 
was seen internationally, with ARGs that were observed six times in Oxfordshire 
always being found elsewhere. Finally, using the example of blaTEM-1, we showed 
that uncatalogued variation, including synonymous variation, is associated with 
potentially important phenotypic differences; for example, two common, 
uncatalogued blaTEM-1 alleles with only synonymous mutations compared with the 
known reference were associated with reduced resistance to 
amoxicillin-clavulanic acid (adjusted odds ratio 0·58 [95% CI 0·35-0·95], 
p=0·031) and piperacillin-tazobactam (0·50 [95% CI 0·29-0·82], p=0·005).
INTERPRETATION: We highlight substantial uncatalogued genetic variation with 
respect to known ARGs, although a relatively small proportion of these alleles 
are repeatedly observed in a large international dataset suggesting strong 
selection pressures. The current approach of using fuzzy matching for ARG 
detection, ignoring the unknown effects of uncatalogued variation, is unlikely 
to be acceptable for future clinical deployment. The association of synonymous 
mutations with potentially important phenotypic differences suggests that 
relying solely on amino acid-based gene detection to predict resistance is 
unlikely to be sufficient. Finally, the inability to explain all resistance 
using existing knowledge highlights the importance of new target gene discovery.
FUNDING: National Institute for Health and Care Research, Wellcome, and UK 
Medical Research Council.

Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2666-5247(24)00152-6
PMID: 39378891

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests We declare no competing 
interests.


320. Acta Paediatr. 2000 Nov;89(11):1312-5. doi: 10.1080/080352500300002480.

CagA seropositivity and the severity of Helicobacter pylori infection in 
dyspeptic children.

Lerro P(1), Perrucci V, Morra I, Lombardo L, Gaido F, Ansaldi N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatric and Adolescence Sciences , University of Turin, 
Italy.

AIM: To assess the incidence of cagA (cytotoxin-associated protein) and to 
evaluate its correlation with endoscopic-histologic findings and with 
eradication rate in a series of children affected by Helicobacter pylori (H. 
pylori) gastritis.
METHODS: Fifty consecutive H. pylori gastritis children (27M; median age 10 y 
and 11 mo) were tested for IgG cagA protein (Western Blot technique). 
Pretreatment H. pylori infection was assessed on the grounds of endoscopic 
antral biopsy specimens by means of rapid urease test and histologic examination 
(Giemsa staining). All the children were treated with omeprazole (1 mg/kg/d), 
clarithromycin (15 mg/kg/d) and amoxycillin (50 mg/kg/d) for 2 wk. According to 
universally accepted clinical practice, outcome of treatment was assessed by 13C 
urea breath test at least 6 wk after the end of therapy.
RESULTS: Thirty-five children (70%) were seropositive to cagA+ protein (median 
age 11 y and 1 mo). Endoscopic findings of cagA+ patients were similar to those 
of cagA- patients. In cagA seropositive patients the severity of histologic 
gastritis was higher (p < 0.05) and the granulocytic infiltration more marked (p 
< 0.01) than in seronegative ones. In cagA+ children, H. pylori eradication rate 
was significantly lower (p < 0.02).
CONCLUSIONS: cagA testing may be of useful clinical interest because its 
positivity can imply a more severe gastritis and a lower susceptibility to 
eradication treatment.

DOI: 10.1080/080352500300002480
PMID: 11106041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Am J Trop Med Hyg. 2012 Nov;87(5 Suppl):105-110. doi: 
10.4269/ajtmh.2012.11-0799.

Impact of integrated community case management on health-seeking behavior in 
rural Zambia.

Seidenberg PD, Hamer DH, Iyer H, Pilingana P, Siazeele K, Hamainza B, MacLeod 
WB, Yeboah-Antwi K.

Provision of integrated community case management (iCCM) for common childhood 
illnesses by community health workers (CHWs) represents an increasingly common 
strategy for reducing childhood morbidity and mortality. We sought to assess how 
iCCM availability influenced care-seeking behavior. In areas where two different 
iCCM approaches were implemented, we conducted baseline and post-study household 
surveys on healthcare-seeking practices among women who were caring for children 
≤ 5 years in their homes. For children presenting with fever, there was an 
increase in care sought from CHWs and a decrease in care sought at formal health 
centers between baseline and post-study periods. For children with 
fast/difficulty breathing, an increase in care sought from CHWs was only noted 
in areas where CHWs were trained and supplied with amoxicillin to treat 
non-severe pneumonia. These findings suggest that iCCM access influences local 
care-seeking practices and reduces workload at primary health centers.

DOI: 10.4269/ajtmh.2012.11-0799
PMCID: PMC3748509
PMID: 23136285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Mali Med. 2005;20(1-2):54-5.

[No title available]

[Article in English, French]

Dao S, Diallo S, Maiga I, Sissoko F, Kayantao D.

It is about a 77 years old man admitted for a small hemoptysia and a 
tuberculosis history that hemoptysia had been developing in a context of 38,5 0 
c fever plus some crepitate rales in the right pulmonary area. After 
tuberculosis has been eliminated trough the bacilloscopy procedure, 
investigations of aspergillus in the splits have been negative. A pulmonary x 
ray revealed a retractile standard opacity in right pulmonary area. Amoxicilline 
based treatment has been conducted for two weeks in vain. Finally the pulmonary 
aspergillosis diagnosis pulmonary was then accepted following highly positive 
aspergillary serology.

PMID: 19617022


323. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2007 Jan;22(1):60-3. doi: 
10.1111/j.1440-1746.2006.04375.x.

Efficacy of rifabutin-based triple therapy in Helicobacter pylori infected 
patients after two standard treatments.

González Carro P(1), Pérez Roldán F, De Pedro Esteban A, Legaz Huidobro ML, Soto 
Fernández S, Roncero Garcia Escribano O, Esteban López-Jamar JM, Pedraza Martin 
C, Ruíz Carrillo F.

Author information:
(1)Digestive Unit, Hospital General Mancha-Centro, Alcázar de San Juan, Spain. 
psgc@mixmail.com

BACKGROUND AND AIM: Even with the current most effective treatment regimens for 
Helicobacter pylori infection, a considerable number of patients will be 
resistant to eradication. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the H. 
pylori eradication rate in patients resistant to standard therapies when treated 
with a triple therapy of pantoprazole, rifabutin and amoxicillin.
METHODS: Ninety-two consecutive patients diagnosed with H. pylori infection 
resistant to two previous treatment regimens were treated with pantoprazole, 
rifabutin and amoxicillin for 10 days. The persistence or eradication of H. 
pylori was determined by a 13C-urea breath test performed 4 weeks after the 
treatment.
RESULTS: Per protocol eradication was achieved in 62.2% of patients and the 
intention-to-treat eradication was 60.8%. Only two patients were excluded for 
adverse events related to the treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: The eradication rate is acceptable as a third-line therapy, 
particularly in centers with high cure rate for first line therapy. Another 
important value of this study is the good tolerance for the treatment observed 
in our patients. It is possible that rifabutin-based triple therapy may be of 
use in hospital centers that do not have disposable culture and susceptibility 
methods against H. pylori.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1746.2006.04375.x
PMID: 17201882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. J Antimicrob Chemother. 2012 Jan;67(1):170-3. doi: 10.1093/jac/dkr410. Epub 2011 
Sep 29.

Antimicrobial susceptibility of Helicobacter pylori to six antibiotics currently 
used in Spain.

Cuadrado-Lavín A(1), Salcines-Caviedes JR, Carrascosa MF, Mellado P, Monteagudo 
I, Llorca J, Cobo M, Campos MR, Ayestarán B, Fernández-Pousa A, 
González-Colominas E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Hospital of Laredo-Instituto de Formación e 
Investigación Marqués de Valdecilla, Avda Derechos Humanos s/n, 39770 Laredo, 
Cantabria, Spain.

BACKGROUND: Antibiotic resistance is directly related to the loss of efficacy of 
currently accepted Helicobacter pylori therapies. Knowledge of the antibiotic 
susceptibility in a local area can contribute to the design of specific 'à la 
carte' treatments. The aim of this study was to analyse the susceptibility of H. 
pylori isolates to six conventional antibiotics currently used in a northern 
region of Spain.
METHODS: Seventy-one isolates were obtained from gastric biopsies of 76 
consecutive adult patients suffering from peptic ulcer disease, dyspepsia or 
familial gastric cancer and known to be infected with H. pylori by conventional 
methods. Susceptibility testing was performed for amoxicillin, ciprofloxacin, 
levofloxacin, clarithromycin, metronidazole and tetracycline using the Etest 
method.
RESULTS: The prevalence rates of resistance were as follows: amoxicillin, 1.4% 
[95% confidence interval (CI) 0.0-7.6]; clarithromycin, 14.7% (95% CI 7.3-25.4); 
ciprofloxacin, 14.3% (95% CI 7.1-24.7); levofloxacin, 14.5% (95% CI 7.2-25.0); 
metronidazole, 45.1% (95% CI 33.2-57.3); and tetracycline, 0% (95% CI 0.0-5.1).
CONCLUSIONS: Our study confirms an increasing rate of resistance to levofloxacin 
that equals that of clarithromycin in our healthcare area. This fact may reflect 
a wide and indiscriminate use of the former antibiotic and could account for a 
loss of clinical effectiveness of levofloxacin-containing regimens. Moreover, 
clarithromycin resistance rates remain stable, which could allow us to maintain 
its use in our area.

DOI: 10.1093/jac/dkr410
PMID: 21965436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Open Access Maced J Med Sci. 2018 Aug 4;6(8):1438-1441. doi: 
10.3889/oamjms.2018.267. eCollection 2018 Aug 20.

A Rare Dermatologic Disease in Pregnancy: Rosacea Fulminans- Case Report and 
Review of the Literature.

Demir O(1), Tas IS(2), Gunay B(3), Ugurlucan FG(2).

Author information:
(1)Clinic of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Erzurum Karayazı Turkish Pharmacists 
Union, County State Hospital, Erzurum, Turkey.
(2)Clinic of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Istanbul School of Medicine, Istanbul 
University, Istanbul, Turkey.
(3)Clinic of Dermatology, Cizre Dr Selahattin Cizrelioglu County State Hospital, 
Sırnak, Turkey.

BACKGROUND: Rosacea is a common, chronic disorder that can present with a 
variety of cutaneous or ocular manifestations. Skin involvement primarily 
affects the central face, with findings such as persistent centrofacial redness, 
papules, pustules, flushing, telangiectasia, and phymatous skin changes. The 
pathways that lead to the development of rosacea are not well understood. The 
relationship of pyoderma faciale (also known as rosacea fulminans) to rosacea 
also is uncertain. We aimed to write this article with the aim of showing how a 
pregnant patient who has been aggravated by the degree of lesions on the face 
during the first trimester of pregnancy is treated and to show what is in the 
literature in this issue.
CASE REPORT: A 22-year-old woman complained of painful erythema, papules and 
pustules on the face. She had fever and malaise during the sixth week of her 
first pregnancy and a history of the mild eruption and seborrhea before her 
pregnancy with flaring over the preceding 4 weeks. Dermatologic examination 
revealed red erythema of all involved facial areas; the lesions consisted of 
papules, pustules and nodules. The case was diagnosed as rosacea fulminans 
(pyoderma faciale) by these findings. In the literature, there are some 
effective therapeutic options such as retinoids, tetracyclines, antiandrogenic 
contraceptives, and dapsone and these were not used because they are 
contraindicated in pregnancy. Amoxicillin-clavulanic acid 1 gr/day, wet 
compresses, and a fusidic acid cream were started. After the activity of the 
disease had been suppressed for 10 days, antibiotic was stopped, and the other 
treatment options were applied topically for the next month. One month after 
cessation of treatment, the lesions had disappeared with only mild erythema 
remaining. There was minimally flushing on the face and no telangiectasia.
CONCLUSION: In conclusion, there is no substantial evidence as to the mechanism 
by which pregnancy may trigger this conditioner whether the gender of the fetus 
influences the development of rosacea fulminans, but is generally accepted that 
hormonal changes in pregnancy play an important role. The pathogenesis of 
rosacea fulminans remains uncertain, but it is obvious that the further basic 
and clinical research is required to optimise the management of this rare facial 
dermatosis.

DOI: 10.3889/oamjms.2018.267
PMCID: PMC6108794
PMID: 30159072


326. J Travel Med. 2009 May-Jun;16(3):186-90. doi: 10.1111/j.1708-8305.2009.00335.x.

Management of travelers' diarrhea by local physicians in tropical and 
subtropical countries--a questionnaire survey.

Wyss MN(1), Steffen R, Dhupdale NY, Thitiphuree S, Mutsch M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology and Prevention of Communicable Diseases, World 
Health Organization Collaborating Centre for Travellers' Health, Institute of 
Social and Preventive Medicine, University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: There is an ongoing debate as to whether patients with travelers' 
diarrhea (TD) should self-medicate with a travel kit in developing countries or 
whether they should consult local doctors. Thus, we have analyzed TD management 
conducted by local health professionals.
METHODS: Practicing physicians recommended to tourists in Goa (India), Mombasa 
(Kenya), and Phuket (Thailand) were invited to participate in a cross-sectional 
questionnaire survey. Three TD case descriptions were presented, and suggested 
diagnostic and therapeutic procedures were analyzed.
RESULTS: In each of the three locations, approximately 20 physicians (59 in 
total, response rate 95%) completed the questionnaires. Oral rehydration was 
proposed by more than 80% of the physicians for mild cases of TD and for TD with 
vomiting, while 73% of them would have treated febrile TD patients orally and 
17% would have used intravenous (IV) fluids. Antimicrobials, primarily 
fluoroquinolones, would have been prescribed for 61, 73, and 95%, respectively, 
of these three cases. Cephalosporins, aminoglycosides (usually IV gentamicin), 
IV amoxicillin, and once co-trimoxazole were recommended. Many medical doctors 
added nitroimidazole to the antibiotic therapy. Multiple symptomatic drugs would 
have been prescribed. The rate of invasive procedures (infusions, injections, 
and diagnostic venipuncture) would have ranged from 20% to 86% in the scenarios 
of the different patients. Mainly practitioners who owned a clinic would have 
hospitalized patients with TD.
CONCLUSIONS: Many physicians in destination countries treat TD patients 
similarly to the treatments prescribed in the "Western world." A minority uses 
obsolete antimicrobials. Polypharmacy and the high rate of invasive procedures 
with a theoretical risk of nosocomial infection are of concern. Training 
initiatives for both local physicians and travelers might be beneficial, and the 
guidelines should be based on internationally accepted expert advice.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1708-8305.2009.00335.x
PMID: 19538579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. J Pediatr Pharmacol Ther. 2015 Jan-Feb;20(1):24-32. doi: 
10.5863/1551-6776-20.1.24.

Development and validation of weight, height and age bands to guide the 
prescription of fixed-dose dispersible tablet formulations.

Larson CP(1), Sauvé L(2), Senkungu JK(3), Arifeen SE(3), Brant R(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British 
Columbia, Canada ; Centre for International Child Health, British Columbia 
Children's Hospital, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada ; International Centre 
of Diarrheal Diseases Research, Bangladesh, Dhaka, Bangladesh ; Child and Family 
Research Institute, British Columbia Children's Hospital, Vancouver, British 
Columbia, Canada.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British 
Columbia, Canada ; Centre for International Child Health, British Columbia 
Children's Hospital, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Mbarara University of Science and Technology, 
Mbarara, Uganda.
(4)Child and Family Research Institute, British Columbia Children's Hospital, 
Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada ; Department of Statistics, University of 
British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.

OBJECTIVES: Conversion of pediatric essential drugs from syrup to dispersible 
tablet formulations would require fixed dose options guided by the weight band 
in which a child falls or a proxy for weight, such as height or age. The purpose 
of this study was to determine whether weight, height, or age bands can be 
created that would lead to greater than 95% of children receiving a therapeutic 
dose of 6 commonly prescribed essential drugs, including paracetamol, iron 
sulfate, amoxicillin, co-trimoxazole (i.e., trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole), 
ciprofloxacin, and co-artemether (i.e., artemether/lumefantrine).
METHODS: Using World Health Organization growth standards, we created 4 weight 
bands and then matched them to height and age 50th percentile growth curves. The 
resulting weight, height, and age bands were then applied to Ugandan and 
Bangladeshi anthropometric data sets, and the percentage of children who would 
have received a correct therapeutic dose based upon weight, height, or age was 
determined. This percentage was interpreted as acceptable if >95%, marginal if 
90% to 95% and unacceptable if <90%.
RESULTS: Applying the 4 weight bands to the 6 selected drugs, greater than 95% 
of children would have received an acceptable therapeutic dose across the 4 
weight bands for each of the 6 drugs tested. None of the drugs tested would 
deliver an acceptable therapeutic dose across all bands based upon height or age 
among Ugandan children, and only co-trimoxazole would have been delivered at 
acceptable therapeutic levels based upon these bands in Bangladeshi children.
CONCLUSIONS: For the 6 drugs tested, dispersible tablets prescribed on the basis 
of a 4-dose regimen determined by weight bands would deliver an acceptable 
therapeutic dose greater than 95% of the time. Substituting weight for age or 
height bands would result in unacceptable levels of under- or overdosing.

DOI: 10.5863/1551-6776-20.1.24
PMCID: PMC4353196
PMID: 25859167


328. Zhongguo Zhong Yao Za Zhi. 2022 Mar;47(6):1476-1483. doi: 
10.19540/j.cnki.cjcmm.20211206.501.

[Clinical comprehensive evaluation of Reyanning Mixture in treatment of acute 
upper respiratory tract infection (heat-toxin attacking lung syndrome)].

[Article in Chinese]

Lyu J(1), Wang ZF(2), Xie YM(2), Cheng FJ(2), Zhang Q(2), Cui X(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Basic Research in Clinical Medicine, China Academy of Chinese 
Medical Sciences Beijing 100700, China Xiyuan Hospital, China Academy of Chinese 
Medical Sciences Beijing 100091, China.
(2)Institute of Basic Research in Clinical Medicine, China Academy of Chinese 
Medical Sciences Beijing 100700, China.

This study systematically sorted out the evidence data of the safety, 
effectiveness, economy, innovation, suitability, accessibility, and 
characteristics of traditional Chinese medicine(TCM) of Reyanning Mixture in the 
treatment of acute upper respiratory tract infection(heat-toxin attacking lung 
syndrome) with the qualitative and quantitative evaluation methods adopted. 
Based on evidence-based medicine, epidemiology, clinical medicine, 
evidence-based pharmacy, pharmacoeconomics, and health technology 
evalua-tion(HTA), the clinical value of Reyanning Mixture was evaluated using 
multi-criteria decision analysis(MCDA) model, Chinese patent medicine clinical 
evidence, and value evaluation software(CSC v2.0). The SRS monitoring data, 
Meta-analysis, and other safety evidence showed that the main adverse reactions 
of Reyanning Mixture were nausea, diarrhea, and rash, and no serious adverse 
reactions were found. The pharmacovigilance system was sound, and the system was 
perfect. There was no recall, notification, or interview for unqualified 
products. Based on the existing research, the evidence was sufficient, and the 
risk was controllable. Hence, its safety was grade A. Meta-analysis showed that 
in the treatment of acute upper respiratory tract infection, Reyanning Mixture 
combined with Amoxicillin Capsules was better than Amoxicillin Capsules alone in 
shortening the complete fever relief time and improving the cure rate. Besides, 
it was superior to Shuanghuanglian Granules in shortening the complete fever 
relief time, cough relief time, nasal congestion relief time, and pharyngeal 
congestion relief time. The Meta-analysis was conducted based on AMSTAR 
standard, and its ove-rall quality was proved good. The evidence quality in 
GRADE system evaluation was medium and low. The quality of evidence was medium, 
and the clinical value was obvious. Hence, its effectiveness was grade A. The 
results of pharmacoeconomic research showed that compared with Amoxicillin 
Capsules, Reyanning Mixture alone or in combination with Amoxicillin Capsules 
had cost-effectiveness advantages in the treatment of acute upper respiratory 
tract infection, and the results were stable in sensitivity analysis. According 
to the CASP economic evaluation checklist, the research problems were clear and 
the results were reliable. As revealed by the comprehensive evaluation, the 
evidence quality was sufficient and the result was clear. Its economy was grade 
B. Reyanning Mixture had multiple therapeutic targets like anti-virus, 
anti-bacteria, antipyresis, and anti-cough, with good clinical innovation. There 
were many innovative initiatives in ensuring drug supply, especially at the 
grass roots, drug safety, and effectiveness, and also multiple innovative 
contributions to production technology, quality control, scientific and 
technological research and development, and enterprise management and marketing. 
Therefore, its innovation was grade B. The dosage form of Reyanning was mixture, 
which made it convenient for storage and transportation. The usage was easy to 
be mastered and accepted by doctors and nurses, exhibiting good suitability for 
clinicians, nurses, pharmacists, and patients who received this drug and 
basically meeting the needs of clinical medication. The suitability was grade B. 
The average daily cost of this drug was 8.082 yuan, and the price was low. The 
treatment cost accounted for a small proportion of the annual disposable income 
of urban and rural residents, indicating that it was affordable. Reyanning 
Mixture was available in 31 provinces, cities and autonomous regions, covering 6 
910 hospitals. The allocation of hospitals at all levels was more than 50%. 
There was no shortage or supply restriction of medicinal material resources. The 
annual production capacity was sufficient to meet the supply demand, so its 
accessibility was grade A. Reyanning Mixture, sourced from &quot;pneumonia 
Ⅲ&quot;, has been subjected to a real-world study of its clinical application, 
with 4 367 cases involved, and the characteristic of TCM was grade B. The 
comprehensive evaluation results demonstrated that the clinical value score of 
Reyanning Mixture in the treatment of acute upper respiratory tract 
infection(heat-toxin attacking lung syndrome) was 0.80, making it rated class A. 
According to the Guidelines for Management of Comprehensive Clinical Evaluation 
of Drugs(trial version 2021), it is recommended to convert it into the relevant 
policy results of basic clinical medication management according to the 
procedures.

DOI: 10.19540/j.cnki.cjcmm.20211206.501
PMID: 35347946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Chemotherapy. 1990;36 Suppl 1:24-6. doi: 10.1159/000238811.

General practitioner study: fosfomycin trometamol versus amoxycillin clavulanate 
in acute urinary tract infections.

Cooper J(1), Raeburn AL, Brumfitt W, Hamilton-Miller JM.

Author information:
(1)Earnswood Medical Centre, Crewe, London, UK.

A clinical trial comparing 5 days' treatment with amoxycillin/clavulanate (group 
A) and a single dose of fosfomycin trometamol (group B) is presented. The study 
was done in symptomatic patients presenting to their family practitioner, with 
the microbiological testing being carried out in a university hospital 
laboratory. Of 62 patients with significant bacteriuria, 29 were given 
amoxycillin/clavulanate and 33 fosfomycin trometamol, in a randomized fashion. 
Cure rates 1 week and 5 weeks after the end of treatment were 72 and 65% in 
group A and 85 and 81% in group B. Adverse events assessed in 141 patients were 
unusual (10.1% in group A and 8.3% in group B) and were mild in nature. The 
results of this study suggest that single-dose treatment with fosfomycin 
trometamol is effective and acceptable as a conventional course of amoxycillin 
clavulanate for the treatment of simple acute dysuria and/or frequency with 
infection.

DOI: 10.1159/000238811
PMID: 2085984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Glob Health Action. 2020 Dec 31;13(1):1775368. doi: 
10.1080/16549716.2020.1775368.

One-arm safety intervention study on community case management of chest 
indrawing pneumonia in children in Nigeria - a study protocol.

Counihan H(1), Baba E(2), Oresanya O(3), Adesoro O(3), Hamzat Y(3), Marks S(1), 
Ward C(1), Gimba P(4), Qazi SA(5), Källander K(1)(6).

Author information:
(1)Malaria Consortium , London, UK.
(2)Malaria Consortium , Kampala, Uganda.
(3)Malaria Consortium , Abuja, Nigeria.
(4)Niger State Ministry of Health , Minna, Nigeria.
(5)Department of Maternal, Newborn, Child and Adolescent Health, World Health 
Organisation , Geneva, Switzerland.
(6)Department of Public Health Sciences, Karolinska Institutet , Stockholm, 
Sweden.

Current recommendations within integrated community case management (iCCM) 
programmes advise community health workers (CHWs) to refer cases of chest 
indrawing pneumonia to health facilities for treatment, but many children die 
due to delays or non-compliance with referral advice. Recent revision of World 
Health Organization (WHO) pneumonia guidelines and integrated management of 
childhood illness chart booklet recommend oral amoxicillin for treatment of 
lower chest indrawing (LCI) pneumonia on an outpatient basis. However, these 
guidelines did not recommend its use by CHWs as part of iCCM, due to 
insufficient evidence regarding safety. We present a protocol for a one-arm 
safety intervention study aimed at increasing access to treatment of pneumonia 
by training CHWs, locally referred to as Community Oriented Resource Persons 
(CORPs) in Nigeria. The primary objective was to assess if CORPs could safely 
and appropriately manage LCI pneumonia in 2-59 month old children, and refer 
children with danger signs. The primary outcomes were the proportion of children 
2-59 months with LCI pneumonia who were managed appropriately by CORPs and the 
clinical treatment failure within 6 days of LCI pneumonia. Secondary outcomes 
included proportion of children with LCI followed up by CORPs on day 3; 
caregiver adherence to treatment for chest indrawing, acceptability and 
satisfaction of both CORP and caregivers on the mode of treatment, including 
caregiver adherence to treatment; and clinical relapse of pneumonia between day 
7 to 14 among children whose signs of pneumonia disappeared by day 6. 
Approximately 308 children 2-59 months of age with LCI pneumonia would be needed 
for this safety intervention study.

DOI: 10.1080/16549716.2020.1775368
PMCID: PMC7480438
PMID: 32856569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported 
by the authors.


331. Anaerobe. 2020 Aug;64:102213. doi: 10.1016/j.anaerobe.2020.102213. Epub 2020 Jun 
29.

Improvement of a disk diffusion method for antibiotic susceptibility testing of 
anaerobic bacteria. French recommendations revisited for 2020.

Dubreuil L(1); Members of the CA-SFM 2019.

Collaborators: Jehl F(2), Cattoen C(3), Bonnet R(4), Bru JP(5), Caron F(6), 
Cattoir V(7), Courvalin P(8), Jarlier V(9), Lina G(10), Merens A(11), Plesiat 
P(12), Marie-Cécile PLOY(13), Soussy CJ(14), Varon E(15), Weber P(16).

Author information:
(1)Faculté de Pharmacie, University of Lille, Rue du Professeur Laguesse, BP 
59006, Lille cedex, France. Electronic address: luc.dubreuil@univ-lille.fr.
(2)Strasbourg, France.
(3)Valenciennes, France.
(4)Clermont-Ferrand, France.
(5)Annecy, France.
(6)Rouen, France.
(7)Rennes, France.
(8)Pasteur Institute, Paris, France.
(9)Pitié Salpétrière, Paris, France.
(10)Lyon, France.
(11)Military Hospital, St Mandé, France.
(12)Besançon, France.
(13)Limoges, France.
(14)Créteil, France.
(15)George Pompidou Hospital, Paris, France.
(16)Vaires sur Marne, France.

The disk diffusion test is very popular but for anaerobes the main pitfalls 
arise from the significant variation of diameters for an individual MIC and the 
weak correlation observed between the MIC's values and diameters zone that 
generates many major and very major errors.
AIMS OF THE STUDY: without any change in the methodology and revisiting only new 
diameter breakpoints, we try to improve the previous French recommendations and 
therefore decrease number of errors by introducing recent EUCAST concepts such 
as ECOFF and ATU Zone.
METHOD: MIC determination by agar dilution was done on 100 anaerobes against 6 
antibiotics. Clinical categorization was based on EUCAST Breakpoints. 
Disk-diffusion method was realized on the same Brucella blood agar incubated in 
an anaerobic chamber. 550 categorizations by both methods could be done as 
amoxicillin was not tested on the 50 B. fragilis group. As anaerobic infections 
are severe and treated by antibiotics at higher dosage, we focus on resistance 
breakpoint to avoid mainly very major errors (VME). Distribution of inhibition 
zones for each MIC allow us to fix the zone diameter breakpoints. These results 
were matched to a large data on distribution of zone diameters for each 
antibiotic collected from two French hospitals from 1990 to 2005. As example for 
metronidazole and the B. fragilis group, we calculated the cut-off diameter 
(15 mm) from a wild type population, at a time when there was no resistance to 
this antibiotic and observed that it was identical to the diameter breakpoint 
for susceptibility.
RESULTS: For an individual value of MIC, the distribution of diameters is wider 
for anaerobes especially for clindamycin and metronidazole. Using a 15 mm 
breakpoint for these two antibiotics limits dramatically the number of very 
major errors but slowly increases the number of major errors that could be 
overcome by MIC determination if inhibition zone is less than 15 mm. ATU zones 
(Area of technical uncertainty) were introduced for amoxicillin-clavulanate 
(17-20 mm), piperacillin-tazobactam (17-20 mm), imipenem (18-23 mm). 
Categorization inside the ATU requires MIC determination. Finally, out of 550 
determinations, VME were observed in 1.45% of cases, an acceptable rate.
CONCLUSION: in combination with introduction of ATU zones disk diffusion method 
allows to detect resistant strains with little MIC determinations and very major 
errors.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anaerobe.2020.102213
PMID: 32615269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The author 
declares no conflict of interest, monetary or otherwise.


332. Enferm Intensiva. 2017 Apr-Jun;28(2):80-91. doi: 10.1016/j.enfi.2016.11.002. 
Epub 2017 Jan 17.

A case report: Nursing interventions on a patient with anaphylactic shock in 
ICU.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Zariquiey-Esteva G(1), Santa-Candela P(2).

Author information:
(1)UCI, Hospital Universitari Dr. Josep Trueta, Girona, España. Electronic 
address: gustauze@gmail.com.
(2)Hospital de Figueres, Figueres, España.

INTRODUCTION AND OBJECTIVES: The care plan of a 42-year-old woman with 
anaphylactic shock, secondary to ingestion of amoxicillin/clavulanic acid, with 
upper airway involvement due to laryngeal angioedema, is presented. Previously 
she had had two episodes of angioedema of unknown origin. The incidence of this 
phenomenon is between 3.2 and 10 cases/100,000 people/year.
CLINICAL OBSERVATION: An evaluation was made and three altered necessities stood 
out: breathing and circulation (she needed mechanical ventilation and 
noradrenalin perfusion), elimination (she required furosemide to keep an 
acceptable diuresis time), and hygiene and skin protection (she presented 
generalised hyperaemia, lip, lingual and oropharyngeal oedema). The hospital's 
Clinical Research Ethics Committee requested the patient's informed consent to 
access her clinical history.
INTERVENTIONS: According to the altered necessities, seven diagnoses were 
prioritised according to NANDA taxonomy: risk of allergic response, risk of 
infection, risk of ineffective renal perfusion, decreased cardiac output, 
impaired spontaneous ventilation, risk of unstable blood glucose level, and risk 
of dysfunctional gastrointestinal motility.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS: Scores of outcome criteria showed a favourable 
evolution after 24hours. The development of a standardised NANDA-NOC-NIC 
language in the clinical case presented allowed us to organise the nursing work, 
facilitating recording and normalising clinical practice. As a limitation of 
this case, we didn't have serial plasma levels of histamine and tryptase to 
assess the evolution of anaphylactic symptoms. Highlight the importance of 
health education in a patient with a history of angioedema.

Copyright © 2016 Sociedad Española de Enfermería Intensiva y Unidades Coronarias 
(SEEIUC). Publicado por Elsevier España, S.L.U. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.enfi.2016.11.002
PMID: 28110904 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Nihon Rinsho. 2009 Dec;67(12):2311-6.

[Helicobacter pylori eradication therapy in children].

[Article in Japanese]

Kato S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Tohoku University School of Medicine.

Proton pump inhibitor-based triple therapies are performed worldwide for 
Helicobacter pylori-associated diseases in childhood. As the first-line therapy, 
the Japanese Pediatric Guideline in H. pylori Infection has recommended a triple 
regimen with amoxicillin and clarithromycin, because the Japanese national 
health care insurance system has permitted only this regimen. However, the 
primary resistance to clarithromycin in Japan is demonstrated in around 30% of 
the strains, leaving an urgent issue for the physicians. A triple regimen with 
amoxicillin and metronidazole is acceptable as the second-line therapy. In 
children with chronic H. pylori gastritis, eradication should be considered if 
they have gastric atrophy or a family history of gastric cancer. In children, 
however, a 'test and treat' strategy to prevent gastric cancer is not 
recommended.

PMID: 19999117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Iran Endod J. 2011 Spring;6(2):54-9. Epub 2011 May 15.

Antibiotic prescription for endodontic treatment: general dentist knowledge + 
practice in shiraz.

Nabavizadeh MR(1), Sahebi S, Nadian I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endodontics, Dental School, Shiraz University of Medical 
Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.

INTRODUCTION: Diseases of the dental pulp and periapical tissues are chiefly 
caused by microorganisms. Antibiotics are used in some endodontic cases; 
however, successful cases can predominantly be achieved by mechanical and 
chemical cleaning of the canal or surgical intervention.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The aim of this study was to determine the knowledge of 
General Dental Practitioners (GDPs) in Shiraz in respect to antibiotic 
prescriptions during and after endodontic treatment. A one-page questionnaire 
was sent to 200 active general dentists. Of the 120 surveys returned, 93 were 
accepted. The data were analyzed using t-test, Chi-square, ANOVA and Fisher's 
Exact Test.
RESULTS: Only 29% of dentists had full knowledge (correct answers to all 
questions) of antibiotic prescription protocols in pulpal and periapical 
disease. Amoxicillin 500 mg capsule was the drug of choice of dentists. Total of 
42% of GDPs had full knowledge of antibiotic prescription protocols for 
persistent or systemic infections cases. GDPs more recently qualified had 
slightly greater knowledge compared to GDPs with experience; however, this 
difference was not significant. Also, there was no significant difference 
between genders.
CONCLUSION: General practitioners' knowledge about antibiotics seems inadequate 
and further education is recommended to update the practitioners.

PMCID: PMC3487514
PMID: 23130054

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: ‘None declared’.


335. Helicobacter. 2021 Jun;26(3):e12792. doi: 10.1111/hel.12792. Epub 2021 Mar 1.

Efficacy of bismuth added to standard triple therapy as the first-line 
eradication regimen for Helicobacter pylori infection.

Kim YJ(1), Chung WC(1), Kim DB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, St. Vincent Hospital, The Catholic 
University of Korea College of Medicine, Seoul, South Korea.

BACKGROUND: Addressing the increasing antibiotic resistance, including 
clarithromycin resistance, which affects Helicobacter pylori eradication 
therapy, is a challenge for clinicians. The objective of this study was to 
determine the efficacy of bismuth added to standard triple therapy as a 
first-line treatment regimen for Helicobacter pylori infection. The secondary 
outcome was the treatment efficacy for clarithromycin-resistant strains.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A prospective study was undertaken from January to 
December 2019. A total of 107 patients with Helicobacter pylori infection were 
enrolled and received Helicobacter pylori eradication therapy with bismuth added 
to standard triple therapy for 14 days. We also evaluated the clarithromycin 
resistance rate by dual-priming oligonucleotide-based multiplex PCR and 
treatment efficacy.
RESULTS: A total of 104 patients completed standard triple therapy with bismuth 
added for Helicobacter pylori eradication. The eradication rates in the 
intention to treat and per-protocol analyses were 87.9% and 90.4%, respectively. 
The frequency of clarithromycin resistance was 33.6% (35/104), and the 
eradication rate was 77.1% in resistant strains (27/35).
CONCLUSION: Bismuth added to standard triple therapy could be acceptable as a 
first-line treatment regimen for Helicobacter pylori eradication in patients 
with clarithromycin-resistant strains. In particular, in areas with high 
clarithromycin tolerance, it is advisable to consider bismuth add-on therapy as 
the first-line treatment regimen.

© 2021 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/hel.12792
PMID: 33650225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Lancet. 2015 May 2;385(9979):1767-1776. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(14)62284-4. Epub 
2015 Apr 1.

Simplified antibiotic regimens compared with injectable procaine 
benzylpenicillin plus gentamicin for treatment of neonates and young infants 
with clinical signs of possible serious bacterial infection when referral is not 
possible: a randomised, open-label, equivalence trial.

African Neonatal Sepsis Trial (AFRINEST) group; Tshefu A(1), Lokangaka A(1), 
Ngaima S(1), Engmann C(2), Esamai F(3), Gisore P(4), Ayede AI(5), Falade AG(5), 
Adejuyigbe EA(6), Anyabolu CH(6), Wammanda RD(7), Ejembi CL(8), Ogala WN(7), 
Gram L(9), Cousens S(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health, Kinshasa School of Public Health, Kinshasa, 
DR Congo.
(2)Departments of Pediatrics and Maternal Child Health, Schools of Medicine and 
Public Health, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(3)Department of Child Health and Paediatrics, School of Medicine, Moi 
University, Eldoret, Kenya. Electronic address: fesamai2007@gmail.com.
(4)Department of Child Health and Paediatrics, School of Medicine, Moi 
University, Eldoret, Kenya.
(5)Department of Paediatrics, College of Medicine, University of Ibadan, and 
University College Hospital, Ibadan, Nigeria.
(6)Department of Paediatrics and Child Health, Obafemi Awolowo University, 
Ile-Ife, Nigeria.
(7)Department of Paediatrics, Ahmadu Bello University Teaching Hospital, Ahmadu 
Bello University, Zaria, Nigeria.
(8)Department of Community Medicine, Ahmadu Bello University Teaching Hospital, 
Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, Nigeria.
(9)Department of Infectious Disease Epidemiology, Faculty of Epidemiology and 
Population Health, London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, London, UK.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2015 May 2;385(9979):1706-1709. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(15)60204-5.
    Lancet. 2015 Oct 3;386(10001):1337. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(15)00329-3.
    Lancet. 2015 Oct 3;386(10001):1337-1338. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(15)00330-X.
    Lancet. 2015 Oct 3;386(10001):1338-1339. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(15)00331-1.
    Lancet. 2015 Oct 3;386(10001):1339. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(15)00332-3.

BACKGROUND: WHO recommends hospital-based treatment for young infants aged 0-59 
days with clinical signs of possible serious bacterial infection, but most 
families in resource-poor settings cannot accept referral. We aimed to assess 
whether use of simplified antibiotic regimens to treat young infants with 
clinical signs of severe infection was as efficacious as an injectable procaine 
benzylpenicillin-gentamicin combination for 7 days for situations in which 
hospital referral was not possible.
METHODS: In a multisite open-label equivalence trial in DR Congo, Kenya, and 
Nigeria, community health workers visited all newborn babies at home, 
identifying and referring unwell young infants to a study nurse. We stratified 
young infants with clinical signs of severe infection whose parents did not 
accept referral to hospital by age (0-6 days and 7-59 days), and randomly 
assigned each individual within these strata to receive one of the four 
treatment regimens. Randomisation was stratified by age group of infants. An 
age-stratified randomisation scheme with block size of eight was 
computer-generated off-site at WHO. The outcome assessor was masked. We randomly 
allocated infants to receive injectable procaine benzylpenicillin-gentamicin for 
7 days (group A, reference group); injectable gentamicin and oral amoxicillin 
for 7 days (group B); injectable procaine benzylpenicillin-gentamicin for 2 
days, then oral amoxicillin for 5 days (group C); or injectable gentamicin for 2 
days and oral amoxicillin for 7 days (group D). Trained health professionals 
gave daily injections and the first dose of oral amoxicillin. Our primary 
outcome was treatment failure by day 8 after enrolment, defined as clinical 
deterioration, development of a serious adverse event (including death), no 
improvement by day 4, or not cured by day 8. Independent outcome assessors, who 
did not know the infant's treatment regimen, assessed study outcomes on days 4, 
8, 11, and 15. Primary analysis was per protocol. We used a prespecified 
similarity margin of 5% to assess equivalence between regimens. This study is 
registered with the Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry, number 
ACTRN12610000286044.
FINDINGS: In Kenya and Nigeria, we started enrolment on April 4, 2011, and we 
enrolled the necessary number of young infants aged 7 days or older from Oct 17, 
2011, to April 30, 2012. At these sites, we continued to enrol infants younger 
than 7 days until March 29, 2013. In DR Congo, we started enrolment on Sept 17, 
2012, and continued until June 28, 2013. We randomly assigned 3564 young infants 
to either group A (n=894), group B (n=884), group C (n=896), or group D (n=890). 
We excluded 200 randomly assigned infants, who did not fulfil the predefined 
criteria of adherence to treatment and adequate follow-up. In the per-protocol 
analysis, 828 infants were included in group A, 826 in group B, 862 in group C, 
and 848 in group D. 67 (8%) infants failed treatment in group A compared with 51 
(6%) infants in group B (risk difference -1·9%, 95% CI -4·4 to 0·1), 65 (8%) in 
group C (-0·6%, -3·1 to 2·0), and 46 (5%) in group D (-2·7%, -5·1 to 0·3). 
Treatment failure in groups B, C, and D was within the similarity margin 
compared with group A. During the 15 days after random allocation, 12 (1%) 
infants died in group A, compared with ten (1%) infants in group B, 20 (2%) 
infants in group C, and 11 (1%) infants in group D. An infant in group A had a 
serious adverse event other than death (injection abscess).
INTERPRETATION: The three simplified regimens were as effective as injectable 
procaine benzylpenicillin-gentamicin for 7 days on an outpatient basis in young 
infants with clinical signs of severe infection, without signs of critical 
illness, and whose caregivers did not accept referral for hospital admission.
FUNDING: Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation grant to WHO.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(14)62284-4
PMID: 25842221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect Dis. 2012 Sep;31(9):2369-77. doi: 
10.1007/s10096-012-1578-x. Epub 2012 Feb 27.

Which antibiotics and breakpoints should be used for Aeromonas susceptibility 
testing? Considerations from a comparison of agar dilution and disk diffusion 
methods using Enterobacteriaceae breakpoints.

Lamy B(1), Laurent F, Kodjo A, Roger F, Jumas-Bilak E; colBVH Study Group; 
Marchandin H.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Bactériologie, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de 
Montpellier, Hôpital Arnaud de Villeneuve, 191, Avenue du Doyen Gaston Giraud, 
34295, Montpellier, France. brigitte_lamy@yahoo.fr

Aeromonas species are environmental organisms that are responsible for numerous 
infections in humans and animals. Their antimicrobial susceptibility is usually 
evaluated using Enterobacteriaceae breakpoints. Although disk diffusion and 
minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC)-based methods are important for 
infectious disease management and epidemiological surveys of resistance, 
comparisons between these two methods have not been extensively studied for 
Aeromonas isolates. We propose the first extensive comparison of agar dilution 
and disk diffusion susceptibility testing methods, performed for 20 
antimicrobial agents, including unevaluated or incompletely evaluated 
antibiotics (ticarcillin with or without clavulanic acid, ertapenem, 
tigecycline), on 146 Aeromonas isolates affiliated with six Aeromonas species 
via molecular means. We evaluated the level of agreement between 
Enterobacteriaceae breakpoints-based methods. Reliable agreement (>95%) was 
observed for piperacillin, cefotaxime, cefepime, nalidixic acid, ofloxacin, 
ciprofloxacin, gentamicin, amikacin, tetracycline and cotrimoxazole, whereas 
marked inconsistencies between the methods were noted for carbapenems, 
amoxicillin-clavulanic acid, ticarcillin, ticarcillin-clavulanic acid, 
tobramycin and tigecycline. The results indicate that beta-lactam and 
aminoglycoside susceptibility testing should be limited to piperacillin, 
cephems, gentamicin and amikacin. Co-amoxiclav should be avoided given the lack 
of agreement between the two methods. Adjusting the zone diameter breakpoints 
for tigecycline and cefoxitin could also improve the agreement to >95% and 
reduce the error rates to acceptable levels.

DOI: 10.1007/s10096-012-1578-x
PMID: 22367351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. J Contemp Dent Pract. 2014 Jan 1;15(1):20-5. doi: 
10.5005/jp-journals-10024-1481.

Comparative evaluation of cariogenic and erosive potential of commonly 
prescribed pediatric liquid medicaments: an in vitro study.

Nankar M(1), Walimbe H(2), Ahmed Bijle MN(3), Kontham U(4), Kamath A(3), 
Muchandi S(1).

Author information:
(1)Postgraduate Student, Department of Pedodontics and Preventive Dentistry Dr 
DY Patil Vidyapeeth, Dr DY Patil Dental College and Hospital Pimpri, Pune, 
Maharashtra, India.
(2)Reader, Department of Pedodontics and Preventive Dentistry Dr DY Patil 
Vidyapeeth, Dr DY Patil Dental College and Hospital Pimpri, Pune, Maharashtra, 
India.
(3)Lecturer, Department of Pedodontics and Preventive Dentistry Dr DY Patil 
Vidyapeeth, Dr DY Patil Dental College and Hospital Pimpri, Pune, Maharashtra, 
India.
(4)Professor, Department of Pedodontics and Preventive Dentistry Dr DY Patil 
Vidyapeeth, Dr DY Patil Dental College and Hospital Pimpri, Pune, Maharashtra, 
India.

INTRODUCTION: Liquid oral medicines being the most accepted form of medication 
in children are frequently prescribed. The harmful effects of these liquid 
medicaments on a child's dental health are not known to many. The present study 
aimed to evaluate and compare the cariogenic and erosive potential of 5 most 
commonly prescribed pediatric liquid medicaments (PLM) in Pimpri Chinchwad and 
Pune city, Pune district.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Most commonly prescribed PLM in Pune district were 
selected as opined by 50 pediatricians. The selected medicaments were Syr. 
Augmentin® Duo, Syr. Valparin®, Syr. Combiflam®, Syr. Visyneral and Syr. 
Orofer®. An estimation of pH, percentage of sucrose concentration and calcium 
dissolving capacity of these preparations was carried out. The results as 
obtained were subjected to statistical analysis using SPSS v 17.0 for windows. 
The statistical test as undertaken was Pearson's correlation coeffcient(r).
RESULTS: Sucrose was seen to be present in Syr. Combiflam® (35.75% ± 0.25%) and 
Syr. Visyneral (18.48% ± 0.43%). Acidic pH was observed for Syr. Visyneral (mean 
pH 3.63 ± 0.04), Syr. Combiflam®(mean pH 5.03 ± 0.02) and Syr. Augmentin® (mean 
pH 6.22 ± 0.02). Highest calcium dissolution was seen with Syr. 
Combiflam®(295.86 mg/ml) and the least with Syr. Orofer® (25.51 mg/ml). No 
statistical significant correlation was observed with calcium dissolution 
potential of PLM in comparison with their respective pH.
CONCLUSION: Syr. Combiflam® can be regarded as the highest cariogenic and 
erosive potential medicament among the compared and tested PLM.
CLINICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Considering syrups with high cariogenic and erosive 
potential should always follow with proper oral hygiene practices or search for 
an alternative drugs void of such detrimental effects.

DOI: 10.5005/jp-journals-10024-1481
PMID: 24939259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Pediatr Infect Dis J. 2013 Sep;32 Suppl 1(Suppl 1 Innovative Treatment Regimens 
for Severe Infections in Young Infants):S12-8. doi: 
10.1097/INF.0b013e31829ff790.

Safety and efficacy of simplified antibiotic regimens for outpatient treatment 
of serious infection in neonates and young infants 0-59 days of age in 
Bangladesh: design of a randomized controlled trial.

Baqui AH(1), Saha SK, Ahmed AS, Shahidullah M, Quasem I, Roth DE, Williams EK, 
Mitra D, Shamsuzzaman AK, Ahmed W, Mullany LC, Cousens S, Wall S, Brandes N, 
Black RE.

Author information:
(1)Department of International Health, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public 
Health, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. abaqui@jhsph.edu

BACKGROUND: Because access to care is limited in settings with high mortality, 
exclusive reliance on the current recommendation of 7-10 days of parenteral 
antibiotic treatment is a barrier to provision of adequate treatment of newborn 
infections.
METHODS: We are conducting a trial to determine if simplified antibiotic 
regimens with fewer injections are as efficacious as the standard course of 
parenteral antibiotics for empiric treatment of young infants with clinical 
signs suggestive of severe infection in 4 urban hospitals and in a rural 
surveillance site in Bangladesh. The reference regimen of intramuscular 
procaine-benzyl penicillin and gentamicin given once daily for 7 days is being 
compared with (1) intramuscular gentamicin once daily and oral amoxicillin twice 
daily for 7 days and (2) intramuscular penicillin and gentamicin once daily for 
2 days followed by oral amoxicillin twice daily for additional 5 days. All 
regimens are provided in the infant's home. The primary outcome is treatment 
failure (death or lack of clinical improvement) within 7 days of enrolment. The 
sample size is 750 evaluable infants enrolled per treatment group, and results 
will be reported at the end of 2013.
DISCUSSION: The trial builds upon previous studies of community case management 
of clinical severe infections in young infants conducted by our research team in 
Bangladesh. The approach although effective was not widely accepted in part 
because of feasibility concerns about the large number of injections. The 
proposed research that includes fewer doses of parenteral antibiotics if shown 
efficacious will address this concern.

DOI: 10.1097/INF.0b013e31829ff790
PMCID: PMC3815010
PMID: 23945570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. J Clin Gastroenterol. 2020 Jul;54(6):522-527. doi: 10.1097/MCG.0000000000001328.

10-Day Versus 14-Day Quadruple Concomitant Nonbismuth Therapy for the Treatment 
of Helicobacter pylori Infection: Results From a Randomized Prospective Study in 
a High Clarithromycin Resistance Country.

Apostolopoulos P(1), Ekmektzoglou K(1), Georgopoulos S(2), Chounta E(1), 
Theofanopoulou A(1), Kalantzis C(1), Vlachou E(1), Tsibouris P(1), Alexandrakis 
G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Army Share Fund Hospital (NIMTS).
(2)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Athens Medical, Paleo Faliron 
Hospital, Athens, Greece.

GOALS: The aim of this study was to investigate the implementation of a 14-day 
quadruple nonbismuth concomitant regimen, as proposed by recent Guidelines and 
Consensus Statements.
BACKGROUND: In Greece, a region with >20% clarithromycin resistance where 
bismuth is unavailable, the 10-day quadruple concomitant scheme has already been 
adopted as the accepted first-line Helicobacter pylori eradication treatment.
STUDY: Our prospective randomized study included 364 patients with newly 
diagnosed H. pylori infection, randomized to receive a 10-day or a 14-day 
nonbismuth quadruple concomitant scheme. Treatment outcome was assessed by 
C-urea breath test and/or histology at least 4 weeks after therapy. Intention to 
treat and per protocol analyses of the eradication rates were performed. 
Secondary endpoints included patient adherence, safety, and the impact of prior 
antibiotic exposure in treatment efficacy.
RESULTS: The overall eradication rates of the 2 treatments were 87.9% versus 
87.4% in the intention to treat analysis, P=1.000, and 93% versus 94.1%, 
P=0.859, in the per protocol analysis for the 10-day and the 14-day treatment 
group, respectively. Both groups displayed excellent compliance rates (99.5% for 
the 10-day vs. 96.2% for the 14-day treatment duration, P=0.067). As regards 
treatment safety, serious adverse events that led to the discontinuation of both 
regimens were few, with no statistical difference between the 2 groups (0.5% in 
the 10-day group and 2.2% in the 14-day group, P>0.05). Previous antibiotic 
exposure was not significant with regard to treatment efficacy.
CONCLUSION: In Greece, the 10-day concomitant nonbismuth quadruple regimen for 
first-line treatment remains the most efficient strategy for H. pylori 
eradication.

DOI: 10.1097/MCG.0000000000001328
PMID: 32028286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Obes Surg. 2016 Jun;26(6):1163-6. doi: 10.1007/s11695-015-1920-3.

How Effective Is the Quadruple Concomitant Helicobacter Pylori Eradication 
Therapy for Obese Patients Undergoing Gastric Bypass Surgery?

Cerqueira RM(1), Correia MR(2), Vilar H(2), Manso MC(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterology, Centro Hospitalar entre Douro e Vouga, Santa Maria Feira, 
Portugal. rute.cerqueira@chedv.min-saude.pt.
(2)Gastroenterology, Centro Hospitalar entre Douro e Vouga, Santa Maria Feira, 
Portugal.
(3)Biostatistics, Faculty of Health Sciences, FP-ENAS, University Fernando 
Pessoa, Porto, Portugal.
(4)LAQV@REQUIMTE-UP, Porto, Portugal.

AIMS AND METHODS: Our aim was to assess, in obese patients undergoing Roux-en Y 
gastric bypass surgery, the quadruple concomitant HP eradication rates at first 
line treatment as proposed by the Maastricht IV consensus in areas of high 
clarithromycin resistance rates-proton pump inhibitor bid, clarithromycin 500 mg 
bid, amoxicillin 1000 mg bid, and metronidazole 500 mg bid. This is a single 
center prospective study over a 3-year period. Endoscopy and HP assessment (by 
histology or C13 urea breath) were performed at baseline, and post treatment HP 
status was assessed by C13 urea breath test 4-6 weeks after the end of therapy.
RESULTS: The study cohort consisted of 600 adult obese HP positive patients 
[19 % male/81 % female, age 40.7 (±10.4) years] consecutively scheduled for HP 
concomitant therapy. HP was eradicated in 416 patients [69.3 % (95% CI 
65.5-72.9 %)] and the eradication was independent of gender, age, endoscopic 
diagnosis, and smoking status (p > 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Two weeks quadruple concomitant therapy did not achieve Maastricht 
recommended first line acceptable HP eradication rates (at least 80 %) in obese 
Portuguese patients undergoing GB.

DOI: 10.1007/s11695-015-1920-3
PMID: 26467690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Pediatr Infect Dis J. 2006 May;25(5):385-9. doi: 
10.1097/01.inf.0000214961.90326.d0.

Knowledge and practices relating to the 2004 acute otitis media clinical 
practice guideline: a survey of practicing physicians.

Vernacchio L(1), Vezina RM, Mitchell AA.

Author information:
(1)Slone Epidemiology Center at Boston University, Boston, MA 02215, USA. 
lvernacchio@slone.bu.edu

OBJECTIVE: To identify primary care physicians' familiarity with the 2004 acute 
otitis media (AOM) clinical practice guideline and to compare their practices 
with its recommendations.
DESIGN: Mail survey October through December 2004 to all active physician 
members of the Slone Center Office-based Research Network, a national, 
practice-based, pediatric research network.
RESULTS: The response rate was 276 of 469 (58.8%). Overall, 90.5% had read the 
guideline or summaries of it. Pneumatic otoscopy was always used by 16.2%, used 
half the time or more by 23.1%, used less than half the time by 34.6% and never 
used by 26.2%. Observation is considered a reasonable option for some AOM cases 
by 88.0% and, over the previous 3 months, these physicians used observation a 
median of 10% of the time (25th and 75th percentiles, 5% and 25%, respectively). 
In terms of concern that the observation option may increase AOM complications, 
75.6% were not at all or only slightly concerned; 24.4% were moderately or very 
concerned. In general, these physicians have altered their antibiotic 
prescribing practices for AOM towards the guideline's recommendations since its 
publication. However, antibiotic choices deviated most widely from the guideline 
in cases of AOM with severe illness, where only 17.9% follow the recommendation 
for high-dose amoxicillin-clavulanate, and in cases of children who fail 
treatment with amoxicillin-clavulanate, where only 27.7% favor the recommended 
intramuscular ceftriaxone.
CONCLUSIONS: Most physicians in this survey are familiar with the AOM guideline, 
but many do not follow its diagnostic and antibiotic recommendations. 
Observation for selected cases is acceptable to most of these physicians and is 
currently used in a small proportion of cases.

DOI: 10.1097/01.inf.0000214961.90326.d0
PMID: 16645499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. World Health Organ Tech Rep Ser. 2012;(969):i-vii, 1-101.

Evaluation of certain veterinary drug residues in food.

World Health Organization.

This report represents the conclusions of a Joint FAO/WHO Expert Committee 
convened to evaluate the safety of residues of certain veterinary drugs in food 
and to recommend maximum levels for such residues in food. The first part of the 
report considers general principles regarding the evaluation of residues of 
veterinary drugs within the terms of reference of the Joint FAO/WHO Expert 
Committee on Food Additives (JECFA), including comments on documents under 
elaboration for the Codex Committee on Residues of Veterinary Drugs in Foods 
(CCRVDF), information on registration/approval status of veterinary drugs, 
extrapolation of maximum residue limits (MRLs), dietary exposure assessment 
methodologies, the decision-tree approach to the evaluation of residues of 
veterinary drugs and guidance for JECFA experts. Summaries follow of the 
Committee's evaluations of toxicological and residue data on a variety of 
veterinary drugs: two antimicrobial agents (amoxicillin, apramycin), four 
anthelminthics (derquantel, ivermectin, monepantel, triclabendazole) and two 
antimicrobial agents and production aids (monensin and narasin). Annexed to the 
report is a summary of the Committee's recommendations on these drugs, including 
acceptable daily intakes (ADIs) and proposed MRLs.

PMID: 22953379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. J Laryngol Otol. 2003 May;117(5):382-5. doi: 10.1258/002221503321626429.

Is the routine use of antibiotics justified in adult tonsillectomy?

O'Reilly BJ(1), Black S, Fernandes J, Panesar J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, Basildon Hospital, Basildon, UK.

Pain and secondary haemorrhage are the commonest complications of adult 
tonsillectomy, occurring mostly in the community. This is a randomized, 
double-blind, placebo-controlled, prospective trial of the effect of 
perioperative amoxycillin on these complications. The incidence and severity of 
post-operative haemorrhage was measured. For the first 10 post-operative days 
patients provided a linear pain score, a record of GP visits, and their use of 
additional antibiotics and analgesics. Of 95 patients considered: 23 suffered a 
secondary haemorrhage; 54 consulted their general practitioner (GP) because of 
pain; additional antibiotics were used by at least 31 and additional analgesics 
by at least 41. No significant differences were demonstrated between the active 
and placebo groups for any of these measures. This study demonstrates that 
secondary haemorrhage is common after adult tonsillectomy. Post-operative pain 
remains a major problem requiring frequent GP consultations. There appears to be 
no justification for the routine use of perioperative antibiotics.

DOI: 10.1258/002221503321626429
PMID: 12803788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Int J Pharm. 2006 Feb 3;308(1-2):84-9. doi: 10.1016/j.ijpharm.2005.10.036. Epub 
2005 Dec 2.

The evaluation of some pharmaceutically acceptable excipients as permeation 
enhancers for amoxicillin.

Legen I(1), Kracun M, Salobir M, Kerc J.

Author information:
(1)Lek Pharmaceuticals d.d., Research and Development, Verovskova 57, 1526 
Ljubljana, Slovenia. igor.legen@sandoz.com

The aim of the present study was to evaluate different pharmaceutically 
acceptable excipients as permeation enhancers for a low permeability drug, 
amoxicillin. As a model for the intestinal epithelium excised rat jejunum, 
mounted in side-by-side diffusion cells, was used. Amoxicillin was actively 
transported across the intestine in the serosal-to-mucosal direction, but only 
if glucose was present at the mucosal side. This effect of glucose was abolished 
by a multridrug resistance associated protein (MRP) inhibitor benzbromarone 
(0.04 mM), but not by verapamil (0.2 mM). Among the tested pharmaceutically 
acceptable excipients only sodium lauryl sulfate (0.2 mg/ml) increased the 
permeability of amoxicillin in the mucosal-to-serosal direction, which was 
accompanying with the abolishment of the secretory oriented transport of 
amoxicillin. Other excipients (0.07 2mg/ml Pluronic F68, 0.2 mg/ml Lutrol F127, 
0.2 mg/ml Cremophor EL or 0.2 mg/ml Carbopol 934) have no influence on the 
permeability of amoxicillin. The effect of sodium lauryl sulfate on the active 
secretion of amoxicillin was mainly attributed to the reversible cellular ATP 
depletion. We concluded that sodium lauryl sulfate can be considered as a 
relatively safe permeation enhancer for amoxicillin in drug delivery systems 
intended to improve oral bioavailability of this drug.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijpharm.2005.10.036
PMID: 16330171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2003 Jul 1;18(1):101-7. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-2036.2003.01659.x.

High-dose rabeprazole-amoxicillin versus rabeprazole-amoxicillin-metronidazole 
as second-line treatment after failure of the Japanese standard regimen for 
Helicobacter pylori infection.

Isomoto H(1), Inoue K, Furusu H, Enjoji A, Fujimoto C, Yamakawa M, Hirakata Y, 
Omagari K, Mizuta Y, Murase K, Shimada S, Murata I, Kohno S.

Author information:
(1)Second Department of Internal Medicine, Nagasaki University School of 
Medicine, Nagasaki, Japan. hhisomot@net.nagasaki-u.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: There is currently no optimal second-line treatment after failure of 
Helicobacter pylori triple therapy.
AIM: To determine effective salvage therapy after failure of 
lansoprazole-amoxicillin-clarithromycin.
METHODS: After failure of lansoprazole-amoxicillin-clarithromycin 123 
out-patients were randomized to receive either 2-week rabeprazole (20 mg b.d.) + 
amoxicillin (1000 mg b.d.) (RA group) or 1-week rabeprazole (10 mg b.d.) + 
amoxicillin (750 mg twice b.d.) + metronidazole (250 mg b.d.) (RAM group). 
Eradication was assessed by the 13C-urea breath test. We also evaluated 
cytochrome p450 (CYP) 2C19 genotype status, determined by polymerase chain 
reaction - restriction fragment length polymorphism, and susceptibility to 
clarithromycin and metronidazole.
RESULTS: On an intention-to-treat basis, H. pylori infection cure was achieved 
in 37 of 63 (59%) patients in the RA group and in 49 of 60 (82%) patients in the 
RAM group. Per protocol-based eradication rates in the RA and RAM groups were 
66% (37/56) and 88% (49/56), respectively. In both analytic sets there were 
significant differences between the treatment groups (P < 0.01 in each). Mild 
adverse events were observed in eight and five patients from the RA and RAM 
groups, respectively. Genetic predisposition of CYP2C19 and antibiotic 
resistance did not influence the treatment outcome either regimen.
CONCLUSIONS: The rabeprazole + amoxicillin + metronidazole therapy yielded 
satisfactory results. In contrast, the cure rate in high-dose rabeprazole + 
amoxicillin was below an acceptable level.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2036.2003.01659.x
PMID: 12848631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. J Antimicrob Chemother. 1986 Mar;17(3):341-5. doi: 10.1093/jac/17.3.341.

Pharmacokinetics of a syrup formulation of amoxycillin-potassium clavulanate in 
children.

Schaad UB, Casey PA, Ravenscroft AT.

The pharmacokinetics of a syrup formulation consisting of four parts of 
amoxycillin and one part of potassium clavulanate (Augmentin) were studied in 11 
paediatric patients, 3 to 14 years of age. Single oral doses of 25 mg of 
Augmentin per kg body weight (20 mg of amoxycillin per kg plus 5 mg of potassium 
clavulanate per kg, i.e. 1 mg of the syrup per kg) were administered on an empty 
stomach, and were well accepted and tolerated. Mean peak plasma concentrations 
60-90 min after dosing were 7.2 mg/l for amoxycillin and 2.0 mg/l for clavulanic 
acid. Mean terminal phase plasma half-lives were 1.4 and 1.0 h, respectively. It 
is concluded that 25-mg/kg doses of this syrup formulation of Augmentin 
administered three times daily should be adequate therapy for various childhood 
bacterial infections.

DOI: 10.1093/jac/17.3.341
PMID: 3700293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Pediatr Rep. 2009 Jun 8;1(1):e2. doi: 10.4081/pr.2009.e2.

Does Helicobacter pylori play a role in the pathogenesis of childhood chronic 
idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura?

Maghbool M(1), Maghbool M, Shahriari M, Karimi M.

Author information:
(1)Pathology Department, Shiraz University of Medical Science, Shiraz, Iran.

Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) is an acute self-limited bleeding 
disorder that can progress to chronic form in 10-15% of the cases. Helicobacter 
pylori (H. pylori) infection is a possible cause of chronic ITP. We studied 30 
children with resistant chronic ITP for H. pylori infection based on the 
detection of H. pylori fecal antigen. This retrospective study was based on data 
obtained from medical records of 30 children aged between five and 17 years 
(median age at ITP diagnosis was ten years). A specially-designed data sheet was 
used to record information on age, sex, duration of disease, family history of 
bleeding disorders, previous treatments and median platelet count. In patients 
with H. pylori infection, antimicrobial treatment consisted of amoxicillin, 
metronidazol and omeprazol. Response was assessed every month for one year and 
defined as complete (platelet count >150×10(9)/L) or partial (platelet count 
between 50 and 150×10(9)/L). We detected H. pylori infection in 5 patients. In 4 
of them increased platelet count was seen during one year of follow-up and in 
one patient the platelet count was acceptable during six months. Although the 
pathological mechanism of H. pylori-induced thrombocytopenia was unclear in our 
patient sample, the assessment of H. pylori infection and use of eradication 
therapy should be attempted in chronic and resistant ITP patients.

DOI: 10.4081/pr.2009.e2
PMCID: PMC3096032
PMID: 21589818

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: the authors reported no 
potential conflict of interests.


349. Med Clin (Barc). 1998 Oct 31;111(14):521-4.

[Cefixime versus amoxicillin plus netilmicin in the treatment of 
community-acquired non-complicated acute pyelonephritis].

[Article in Spanish]

Moreno-Martínez A(1), Mensa J, Martínez JA, Marco F, Vila J, Almela M, García 
San Miguel J, Soriano E.

Author information:
(1)Servicios de Enfermedades Infecciosas y Microbiología, Hospital Clínic i 
Provincial, Barcelona.

Comment in
    Med Clin (Barc). 1999 Apr 24;112(14):558-9.

BACKGROUND: Community-acquired non-complicated acute pyelonephritis (APN) is a 
frequent, occasionally serious infection (around 20% of the cases are 
bacteremic) that usually requires hospital admission. The third generation oral 
cephalosporins which are active against more than 95% of E. coli strains should 
allow the outpatient management of these patients.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the bacteriological and clinical efficacy of oral 
cefixime in comparison to amoxicilin plus netilcilin in the treatment of APN.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients older than 18 years affected by APN were included 
in a fourteen month prospective study. According to a random numbers chart, the 
patients received cefixime (400 mg/24 h in a single daily dose for 12 days) or 
amoxicilin (1 g/8 h per os) plus netilmicin (4 mg/kg/24 h in a single 
intramuscular daily dose) during five days followed by 7 days of an oral 
treatment chosen according to the susceptibility pattern of isolated 
microorganism.
RESULTS: Sixty-one patients received cefixime and 65 amoxicillin plus 
retilmicin. There were no significant differences between both groups of 
patients. Thirty-two patients presented bacteremia (25.4%). The mean (SD) eak 
and trough concentrations of netilmicin were 11.4 (2.8) mg/l and 0.38 (0.4) 
mg/l, respectively. Clinical response was favorable in 97% of patients treated 
with cefixime and in 98% of those treated with amoxicilin plus netilmicin (p = 
NS). The infection recurred in 10 out of 59 patients (16.9%) in the cefixime arm 
of the study and in 9 out of 64 patients (14%) treated with amoxicillin plus 
netilmicin (p = NS). Tolerance to the study drugs was good in both arms of the 
study, and renal function remained normal.
CONCLUSION: Cefixime seems to be an acceptable alternative to the regimens 
containing an aminopenicillin and an aminoglycoside for the treatment of 
community-acquired non-complicated APN.

PMID: 9859076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Drug Dev Ind Pharm. 2012 Jul;38(7):808-14. doi: 10.3109/03639045.2011.628678. 
Epub 2011 Nov 17.

Comparative evaluation of pharmaceutical products obtained in Mexico: augmenting 
existing scientific data.

Karlage KL(1), Franklin SJ, Mufich WC, Goetz KJ, Sabelka JV, Hoye WL, Myrdal PB.

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ 85721-0207, USA. 
karlage@pharmacy.arizona.edu

CONTEXT: The accessibility of pharmacies in neighboring countries has 
facilitated the trend of acquiring medications outside of local borders. 
However, scientific data assessing the drug content and quality of these 
medications has not increased in a corresponding fashion.
OBJECTIVE: This study seeks to augment existing scientific data.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Seventeen products that were obtained from pharmacies in 
Mexico were evaluated for active ingredient content. The active pharmaceutical 
ingredients (API) assessed included amoxicillin, ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, 
levothyroxine, sildenafil citrate, sulfamethoxazole, trimethoprim, and warfarin. 
API content was analysed with high performance liquid chromatography assays and 
the resultant data interpreted by applying United States Pharmacopeia (USP) 
acceptability limits.
RESULTS: All of the samples analyzed for the two ciprofloxacin products and the 
two ampicillin products were found to be within the USP limits. Of the four 
different sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim products tested, all were within USP 
limits for sulfamethoxazole, but contained 2-3 individual units which were 
outside of USP limits for trimethoprim. Several of the remaining products 
(amoxicillin, levothyroxine, sildenafil citrate, and warfarin) had individual 
units that fell outside of the USP limits, although only one of the 
levothyroxine products (1 out of 20 tablets tested) and both sildenafil citrate 
products (all of the units tested) contained units outside of ±25% label claim.

DOI: 10.3109/03639045.2011.628678
PMID: 22091930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Am J Med. 1990 May 14;88(5A):2S-8S. doi: 10.1016/0002-9343(90)90253-a.

A descriptive study of 42 cases of Branhamella catarrhalis pneumonia.

Wright PW(1), Wallace RJ Jr, Shepherd JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Practice, University of Texas Health Center, Tyler 
75710.

PURPOSE: We studied the clinical and laboratory findings of patients with 
pneumonia due to Moraxella (Branhamella) catarrhalis to better characterize the 
types of patients who develop this pneumonia, the clinical features of the 
illness, and the type of and response to drug therapy, as well as the immediate 
and long-term survival of these patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients with sputum samples that met cellular criteria as 
quality samples and that grew B. catarrhalis as the sole pathogen were 
identified retrospectively from microbiology records at a regional referral 
hospital for cardiac and pulmonary diseases. Records of these patients were 
reviewed to identify patients with radiographic findings of pneumonia. Clinical 
and laboratory characteristics of these patients were then studied in detail.
RESULTS: Forty-two patients who met the criteria for B. catarrhalis pneumonia 
were identified. Most patients were elderly (over 65 years; 55 percent), 
malnourished (69 percent), and had severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
or another serious underlying disease (98 percent). The seasonal incidence of 
this pneumonia was October through April (88 percent), with the annual number of 
cases having increased since 1982. The clinical presentation was typically mild. 
Interstitial or mixed interstitial-alveolar infiltrates superimposed on 
pre-existing chronic lung disease was the most common radiographic finding. 
Approximately 90 percent of sputa were acceptable for Gram stain and contained 
10 to more than 50 gram-negative cocci/1,000 x field. All cultures produced a 
heavy growth of B. catarrhalis, with 67 percent of strains positive for 
beta-lactamase. No patient had identified bacteremia (zero of 25 tested). 
Therapy with numerous agents including cefotaxime, amoxicillin/clavulanic acid, 
and trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole resulted in a good clinical and bacteriologic 
response. However, 45 percent of patients died of their underlying diseases on 
this admission or within three months.
CONCLUSION: These findings provide a good profile of B. catarrhalis pneumonia. 
Despite the mild character of the illness, the pneumonia occurs in patients with 
end-stage pulmonary or malignant disease and almost 50 percent of patients die 
of their underlying diseases within three months.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9343(90)90253-a
PMID: 2111088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. J Antimicrob Chemother. 2018 May 1;73(5):1423-1432. doi: 10.1093/jac/dky004.

Effects of primary care antimicrobial stewardship outreach on antibiotic use by 
general practice staff: pragmatic randomized controlled trial of the TARGET 
antibiotics workshop.

McNulty C(1), Hawking M(2), Lecky D(1), Jones L(1), Owens R(1), Charlett A(3), 
Butler C(4), Moore P(5), Francis N(6).

Author information:
(1)Primary Care Unit, Public Health England, Gloucester Royal Hospital, Great 
Western Road, Gloucester GL1 3NN, UK.
(2)Centre for Primary Care and Public Health, Bart's and the London School of 
Medicine and Dentistry, Queen Mary University, Yvonne Carter Building, 58 Turner 
Street, London E1 2AB, UK.
(3)Statistics Unit Public Health England, 61 Colindale Avenue, London NW9 5EQ, 
UK.
(4)Nuffield Department of Primary Care Health Sciences, University of Oxford, 
Radcliffe Primary Care Building, Radcliffe Observatory Quarter, Woodstock Rd, 
Oxford OX2 6GG, UK.
(5)Gloucestershire Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Great Western Road, 
Gloucester GL1 3NN, UK.
(6)Division of Population Medicine, Cardiff University School of Medicine, 
Neuadd Meirionnydd, Heath Park, Cardiff CF14 4YS, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To determine whether local trainer-led TARGET antibiotic interactive 
workshops improve antibiotic dispensing in general practice.
METHODS: Using a McNulty-Zelen-design randomized controlled trial within three 
regions of England, 152 general practices were stratified by clinical 
commissioning group, antibiotic dispensing rate and practice patient list size, 
then randomly allocated to intervention (offered TARGET workshop that 
incorporated a presentation, reflection on antibiotic data, promotion of patient 
and general practice (GP) staff resources, clinical scenarios and action 
planning, 73 practices) or control (usual practice, 79 practices). The primary 
outcome measure was total oral antibiotic items dispensed/1000 patients for the 
year after the workshop (or pseudo-workshop date for controls), adjusted for the 
previous year's dispensing.
RESULTS: Thirty-six (51%) intervention practices (166 GPs, 51 nurses and 101 
other staff) accepted a TARGET workshop invitation. In the ITT analysis total 
antibiotic dispensing was 2.7% lower in intervention practices (95% CI -5.5% to 
1%, P = 0.06) compared with controls. Dispensing in intervention practices was 
4.4% lower for amoxicillin/ampicillin (95% CI 0.6%-8%, P = 0.02); 5.6% lower for 
trimethoprim (95% CI 0.7%-10.2%, P = 0.03); and a non-significant 7.1% higher 
for nitrofurantoin (95% CI -0.03 to 15%, P = 0.06). The Complier Average Causal 
Effect (CACE) analysis, which estimates impact in those that comply with 
assigned intervention, indicated 6.1% (95% CI 0.2%-11.7%, P = 0.04) lower total 
antibiotic dispensing in intervention practices and 11% (95% CI 1.6%-19.5%, 
P = 0.02) lower trimethoprim dispensing.
CONCLUSIONS: This study within usual service provision found that TARGET 
antibiotic workshops can help improve antibiotic use, and therefore should be 
considered as part of any national antimicrobial stewardship initiatives. 
Additional local facilitation will be needed to encourage all general practices 
to participate.

DOI: 10.1093/jac/dky004
PMCID: PMC5909634
PMID: 29514268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Dig Dis Sci. 2014 Feb;59(2):383-9. doi: 10.1007/s10620-013-2900-x. Epub 2013 Oct 
15.

Third-line rescue therapy with bismuth-containing quadruple regimen after 
failure of two treatments (with clarithromycin and levofloxacin) for H. pylori 
infection.

Gisbert JP(1), Perez-Aisa A, Rodrigo L, Molina-Infante J, Modolell I, Bermejo F, 
Castro-Fernández M, Antón R, Sacristán B, Cosme A, Barrio J, Harb Y, 
Gonzalez-Barcenas M, Fernandez-Bermejo M, Algaba A, Marín AC, McNicholl AG; H. 
pylori Study Group of the Spanish Gastroenterology Association.

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterology Unit, Hospital Universitario de La Princesa and Instituto de 
Investigación Sanitaria Princesa (IP), Playa de Mojácar 29. Urb. Bonanza., 
28669, Boadilla del Monte, Madrid, Spain, gisbert@meditex.es.

BACKGROUND: Helicobacter pylori eradication therapy with a proton pump inhibitor 
(PPI), clarithromycin, and amoxicillin fails in >20 % of cases. A rescue therapy 
with PPI-amoxicillin-levofloxacin still fails in >20 % of patients.
AIM: To evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of a bismuth-containing quadruple 
regimen in patients with two consecutive eradication failures.
METHODS: Prospective multicenter study of patients in whom 1st treatment with 
PPI-clarithromycin-amoxicillin and 2nd with PPI-amoxicillin-levofloxacin had 
failed. A 3rd eradication regimen with a 7- to 14-day PPI (standard dose 
b.i.d.), bismuth subcitrate (120 mg q.i.d. or 240 mg b.i.d.), tetracycline (from 
250 mg t.i.d. to 500 mg q.i.d.) and metronidazole (from 250 mg t.i.d. to 500 mg 
q.i.d.). Eradication was confirmed by (13)C-urea-breath-test 4-8 weeks after 
therapy. Compliance was determined through questioning and recovery of empty 
medication envelopes. Adverse effects were evaluated by means of a 
questionnaire.
RESULTS: Two hundred patients (mean age 50 years, 55 % females, 20 % peptic 
ulcer/80 % uninvestigated-functional dyspepsia) were initially included, and two 
were lost to follow-up. In all, 97 % of patients complied with the protocol. 
Per-protocol and intention-to-treat eradication rates were 67 % (95 % 
CI 60-74 %) and 65 % (58-72 %). Adverse effects were reported in 22 % of 
patients, the most common being nausea (12 %), abdominal pain (11 %), metallic 
taste (8.5 %), and diarrhea (8 %), none of them severe.
CONCLUSION: A bismuth-containing quadruple regimen is an acceptable third-line 
strategy and a safe alternative after two previous H. pylori eradication 
failures with standard clarithromycin- and levofloxacin-containing triple 
therapies.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-013-2900-x
PMID: 24126798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Mikrobiyol Bul. 2005 Apr;39(2):145-52.

[Comparison of antimicrobial resistance patterns of enterotoxin gene positive 
and negative Bacteroides fragilis isolates].

[Article in Turkish]

Toprak NU(1), Yağci A, Celik C, Cakici O, Söyletir G.

Author information:
(1)Marmara Universitesi Tip Fakültesi, Mikrobiyoloji ve Klinik Mikrobiyoloji 
Anabilim Dali, Istanbul.

Some of the Bacteroides fragilis strains produce enterotoxin named fragilysin 
which is accepted as a virulence factor. In this study, the presence of 
enterotoxin genes (bft) in clinical B. fragilis strains has been investigated 
and the antimicrobial resistance patterns of bft positive and negative isolates 
have been compared. B. fragilis strains isolated from different clinical samples 
were identified by conventional methods and API 20A system, and the presence of 
bft genes were searched by using BF3/BF4 primers in polymerase chain reaction. A 
total of 100 B. fragilis strains of which 50 bft gene positive and 50 bft gene 
negative were included to the study, and their antimicrobial susceptibilities 
were determined by agar dilution method as recommended by NCCLS (M11-A4). Of 100 
strains, 71 (34 bft negative, 37 bft positive) have been isolated from the 
stool, and 29 (16 bft negative, 13 bft positive) have been isolated from other 
specimens (blood, abscess, pleural and peritoneal fluids). beta-lactamase 
production was detected in 96% of enterotoxigenic B. fragilis (ETBF) and 95% of 
non-toxigenic strains, and all tested strains were found to be susceptible to 
amoxicillin/clavulanic acid, imipenem and metronidazole. The resistance rates 
(with MIC90 values) of bft positive isolates against the other antibiotics were 
as follows; 96% (256 microg/ml) for ampicillin, 16% (256 microg/ml) for 
piperacillin, 8% (32 microg/ml) for cefoxitin, 24% (> 256 microg/ml) for 
clindamycin, 74% (64 microg/ml) for tetracycline and 0% (8 microg/ml) for 
chloramphenicol. These rates were found as follows for bft negative strains; 95% 
(256 microg/ml) for ampicillin, 6% (64 microg/ml) for piperacillin, 6% (32 
microg/ml) for cefoxitin, 38% (> 256 microg/ml) for clindamycin, 64% (64 
microg/ml) for tetracycline and 4% (8 microg/ml) for chloramphenicol. Although 
the resistance rates and MIC90 values of bft positive strains against the 
antimicrobials seemed to be higher, there were no statistically significant 
differences between resistance rates of bft positive and negative strains (P > 
0.05; 0.12 and 0.28, respectively).

PMID: 16128024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. J Fam Pract. 1996 Apr;42(4):357-61.

Antibiotics and upper respiratory infection: do some folks think there is a cure 
for the common cold.

Mainous AG 3rd(1), Hueston WJ, Clark JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Practice, University of Kentucky, Lexington 40536-0284, 
USA.

Comment in
    J Fam Pract. 1996 Oct;43(4):330-1.

BACKGROUND: Symptomatic treatment is the only recommended therapy for the 
uncomplicated "common cold." The purpose of this study was to examine the use of 
antibiotics and other prescription medications for the common cold in a Medicaid 
population seen in ambulatory care settings.
METHODS: A cross-sectional sample of Kentucky Medicaid claims from July 1, 1993, 
through June 30, 1994, was analyzed. Subjects were patients seen in an 
ambulatory setting for the common cold, defined as acute nasopharyngitis. A 
total of 1439 individuals were seen for 2171 separate outpatient and emergency 
department encounters for the common cold. Outpatient visits accounted for 99% 
(2144) of the encounters.
RESULTS: Patients in 35% (752) of the encounters did not fill a prescription for 
medication, 6% (129) filled a prescription for an antihistamine or other 
symptomatic medication, and 60% (1290) filled a prescription for an antibiotic 
for the common cold. Nineteen different antibiotics, 54% of which were 
amoxicillin, were prescribed for the common cold. Less than 2% of the encounters 
had a secondary diagnosis of either acute sinusitis or otitis media. These 
encounters were not more likely than the total sample to receive antibiotics. 
Adults were more likely than children to receive an antibiotic (P<.001), and 
urban physicians were more likely than rural physicians to prescribe antibiotics 
(P=.02). A conservative estimate of the annual cost of antibiotic prescribing 
for the common cold in the United States was $37.5 million.
CONCLUSIONS: A majority of persons receiving medical care for the common cold 
are given prescriptions for an unnecessary antibiotic. Unchecked, this practice 
may lead to greater antibiotic resistance and unnecessary use of health care 
resources. Future research should focus on the ability to institute behavioral 
changes for treatment of the common cold in both closed systems (eg, managed 
care) and open systems (eg, general community of physicians).

PMID: 8627203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. J Microbiol Immunol Infect. 1999 Mar;32(1):1-8.

A multicenter study on eradication of Helicobacter pylori infection in patients 
with duodenal ulcer by lansoprazole-antibiotics combined therapy.

Yang JC(1), Yang KC, Hsu CT, Wang CS, Kuo CF, Wang TH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, National Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei, 
ROC.

The aim of this prospective randomized multicenter study was to find out if 
there is one or several promising regimens containing lansoprazole with various 
combinations of antibiotics which have a high eradication rate of Helicobacter 
pylori, few side-effects, good patient compliance, and relative low cost if 
possible. Two hundred and ninety-seven patients with H. pylori positive duodenal 
ulcer were enrolled and randomly allocated into one of the five treatment 
groups: 1) group A: received lansoprazole 30 mg once daily for 2 weeks plus 
amoxicillin (AM) 500 mg and metronidazole (MZ) 500 mg twice daily for one week 
in the first week; 2) group B: the AM in group A was replaced by clarithromycin 
(CM) 250 mg; 3) group C: the MZ in group A was replaced by CM 250 mg; 4) group 
D: the AM and CM in group C was used for 2 wk; 5) group E: the CM in group D was 
doubled to 500 mg twice daily. All patients received endoscopies pre- and 4-6 
weeks post termination of treatment. H. pylori was detected by culture, 
histology and rapid urease test (CLO test). 13C-urea breath test was performed 
if the patients refused the second endoscopy. The E-test was adopted to evaluate 
the MZ and CM resistance of H. pylori. Totally, 253 patients completed the 
study. The eradication rate of groups A, B, C, D and E were 75%, 80%, 78%, 92%, 
and 96%, respectively. The eradication rate of group E was significantly higher 
than that of groups A, B, or C. There were no significant differences of 
eradication rates between the groups D and E. Sixty-seven cases (28.8%) were 
MZ-resistant. The difference of eradication rates between MZ-S and MZ-R patients 
was significant in group A (85.3% vs. 42.9%) and in the combination of groups A 
and B (83.8% vs. 59.4%). Good compliance (defined as taking > 90% of 
medications) was seen in more than 90% of cases in each group. Triple therapy 
containing lansoprazole 30 mg once daily, AM 500 mg and CM 250 mg twice daily 
for two weeks is a promising regimen which reaches a high eradication rate, 
avoids MZ resistance, and has very good patient compliance at an acceptable 
cost.

PMID: 11561564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Iran Endod J. 2020 Winter;15(1):1-5. doi: 10.22037/iej.v15i1.24334.

Prevalence of Self-Medication with Antibiotics amongst Clients Referred to 
Outpatient University Dental Clinics in Iranian Population: A 
Questionnaire-Based Study.

Emad S(1), Abedi S(1), Dehghani Z(2), Ghahramani Y(3).

Author information:
(1)Dentist, School of Dentistry, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, 
Iran.
(2)Department of Operative Dentistry, School of Dentistry, Shiraz University of 
Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
(3)Department of Endodontics, School of Dentistry, Shiraz University of Medical 
Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.

Self-medication with antibiotics may increase the risk of inappropriate use and 
development of antibiotic-resistant bacteria. The aim of this study was to 
determine the prevalence of self-medication with antibiotics amongst dental 
outpatients in Iranian population.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: One thousand and two hundred of dentistry patients, who 
were referred to dental school clinics in ten major provinces of Iran, 
participated in this study. A valid self-administered questionnaire regarding 
self-medication with antibiotics in case of dental pain was used to collect 
data. Data were analysed using descriptive statistics and Logistic regression 
analysis.
RESULTS: In our study population, the prevalence of self-medication was 42.6%. 
Amongst the Iranian cities, the highest prevalence of self-medication with 
antibiotics belonged to the city of Bandar Abbas (64%) and the lowest was seen 
in the city of Kerman (27.3%). Men were more likely to take antibiotics. 
Amoxicillin was the mostly used antibiotic. Severe pain, previous 
self-medications and high costs of dental visits were the most common reasons 
for self-medication with antibiotics in the investigated population. In 
addition, the present study showed that marriage, acceptable financial status 
and high level of education could decrease self-medication with antibiotics.
CONCLUSIONS: In the current investigation, an alarming fact was that 
self-medication for dental problems seemed very common amongst the studied 
population. One of its most important consequences was bacterial resistance. 
Therefore, there should be plans to promote and prioritize public health 
awareness and encourage general public's motivation to reduce the practice of 
self-medication.

DOI: 10.22037/iej.v15i1.24334
PMCID: PMC9723210
PMID: 36704324

Conflict of interest statement: ‘None declared’.


358. Br Vet J. 1989 Nov-Dec;145(6):552-7. doi: 10.1016/0007-1935(89)90117-6.

Antibiotic persistence and tolerance in the lactating sheep following a course 
of intramammary therapy.

Buswell JF, Barber DM.

The commercial use of sheep for the production of milk and milk products is 
attractive to farmers actively diversifying their dairy interests due to the 
impact of the quota system. As intensification of milking increases, flock sizes 
will enlarge and the incidence of ovine mastitis will inevitably increase. The 
pharmaceutical industry and the veterinary practitioner will be required to 
provide advice and data upon the performance of currently available bovine 
intramammary preparations for the sheep. This study produces evidence to confirm 
that one available bovine intramammary preparation, when infused into milking 
sheep, produced a withholding time approximately three times as long as that 
defined for the cow. Following a course of three infusions over a period of 24 
hours after consecutive milkings, milk was not acceptable for human consumption 
or for the production of cheese and yoghurts until 136 hours following the final 
infusion. This situation is likely to be representative of that which will occur 
with other intramammary products used in the ovine species following infusion 
with bovine intramammary preparations.

DOI: 10.1016/0007-1935(89)90117-6
PMID: 2590825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Helicobacter. 2007 Feb;12(1):31-5. doi: 10.1111/j.1523-5378.2007.00468.x.

Comparison of 7-day and 14-day proton pump inhibitor-containing triple therapy 
for Helicobacter pylori eradication: neither treatment duration provides 
acceptable eradication rate in Korea.

Kim BG(1), Lee DH, Ye BD, Lee KH, Kim BW, Kim SG, Kim SW, Kim SK, Kim JJ, Kim 
HY, Park JJ, Park CY, Baik GH, Lee YC, Lee JH, Lee JH, Chun HJ, Hahm KB, Hong 
SJ, Lee SW, Jung HC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Seoul National University Boramae Hospital, 
Seoul, Korea.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Although triple combination therapy containing a proton 
pump inhibitor (PPI) and two antibiotics is considered as a standard regimen for 
the first-line anti-Helicobacter pylori treatment, there are still debates on 
the ideal duration of treatment. The aim of this study was to compare the 
efficacies of 7-day and 14-day PPI-containing triple therapy.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This study was performed in a randomized, multicenter, 
prospective manner. After upper gastrointestinal endoscopy, H. pylori-infected 
patients with a gastric ulcer and/or a duodenal ulcer were randomly assigned to 
a PAC7 group (omeprazole 20 mg or equivalent dose of other PPIs, amoxicillin 
1000 mg, and clarithromycin 500 mg twice daily for 7 days) or to a PAC14 group 
(the same regimen as the PAC7 group but for 14 days). H. pylori status was 
evaluated by (13)C urea breath test 5 weeks after anti-ulcer treatment 
completion.
RESULTS: A total of 598 patients were enrolled; 337 were randomized to the PAC7 
group and 261 to the PAC14 group. The two groups were comparable in terms of 
baseline characteristics. The eradication rates of the PAC7 group were not 
inferior to those of the PAC14 group in both intention-to-treat analysis (71.2% 
vs. 75.5%) and per-protocol analysis (83.6% vs. 86.6%). Incidences of adverse 
events were comparable.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the 7-day PPI-containing triple anti-H. pylori therapy is 
not inferior to the 14-day therapy, neither treatment duration provides 
acceptable eradication rate reaching 90% in per-protocol analysis. New 
combination regimen with higher efficacy should be developed as a first-line 
eradication therapy for H. pylori in Korea.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1523-5378.2007.00468.x
PMID: 17241298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Dig Dis Sci. 2009 Mar;54(3):599-603. doi: 10.1007/s10620-008-0374-z. Epub 2008 
Jul 2.

Efficacy of a new therapeutic regimen versus two routinely prescribed treatments 
for eradication of Helicobacter pylori: a randomized, double-blind study of 
doxycycline, co-amoxiclav, and omeprazole in Iranian patients.

Taghavi SA(1), Jafari A, Eshraghian A.

Author information:
(1)Gasteroenterology Research Center, Shiraz University of Medical Science, 
Shiraz, Iran.

This study compared a new regimen (group A: doxycycline, co-amoxiclav, 
omeprazole) and two routinely prescribed regimens (group B: amoxicillin, 
omeprazole, furazolidone, bismuth; group C: amoxicillin, clarithromycin, 
omeprazole) to find an acceptable first-line treatment option for Helicobacter 
pylori. The study population consisted of 189 patients who referred to our 
clinic to undergo endoscopy due to ulcer-like dyspepsia. The H. pylori 
eradication rate was 68% in group A, 56% in group B, and 70% in group C 
according to per-control analysis. There was no statistically significant 
difference in H. pylori eradication between groups A and B (P = 0.187), groups A 
and C (P = 0.857), and groups B and C (P = 0.15). In conclusion, although none 
of the three eradication regimens can be recommended as a first-line eradication 
treatment, the new regimen is at least as effective and probably better 
tolerated than the two routinely applied regimens.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-008-0374-z
PMID: 18594971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


361. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2004 May 1;19(9):993-8. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2036.2004.01877.x.

Effectiveness and pharmaceutical cost of sequential treatment for Helicobacter 
pylori in patients with non-ulcer dyspepsia.

De Francesco V(1), Della Valle N, Stoppino V, Amoruso A, Muscatiello N, Panella 
C, Ierardi E.

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterology Unit, Ospedali Riuniti, Foggia, Italy.

BACKGROUND: A novel 10-day sequential treatment regimen recently achieved a 
significantly higher eradication rate than standard 7-day therapy in both peptic 
ulcer disease and non-ulcer dyspepsia. Its higher performance has recently been 
confirmed using a halved clarithromycin dose in peptic ulcer disease.
AIMS: To evaluate whether an acceptable eradication rate could also be obtained 
by halving the clarithromycin dose in dyspeptic patients and to assess the role 
of possible factors affecting the outcome of therapy.
METHODS: In a prospective, open-label study, 162 patients with non-ulcer 
dyspepsia and Helicobacter pylori infection, assessed by rapid urease test and 
histology, were enrolled. Patients were randomized to receive either 10-day 
sequential therapy, comprising rabeprazole 20 mg b.d. plus amoxicillin 1 g b.d. 
for the first 5 days, followed by rabeprazole 20 mg b.d., clarithromycin 250 mg 
b.d. and tinidazole 500 mg b.d. for the remaining 5 days (low-dose therapy), or 
a similar schedule with clarithromycin 500 mg b.d. (high-dose therapy). Four to 
six weeks after therapy, H. pylori eradication was assessed by 
endoscopy/histology.
RESULTS: A similar H. pylori eradication rate was observed following low- and 
high-dose regimens for both per protocol (94% vs. 95%; P = N.S.) and 
intention-to-treat (93% vs. 94%; P = N.S.) analyses. No major side-effects were 
reported. Halving the clarithromycin dose leads to a per patient saving in 
pharmaceutical costs of 24.6 euros. None of the variables examined affected the 
effectiveness of eradication of the sequential regimen.
CONCLUSION: A reduction of the clarithromycin dose does not affect H. pylori 
eradication with the sequential regimen in non-ulcer dyspepsia and affords lower 
costs.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2036.2004.01877.x
PMID: 15113366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Middle East J Dig Dis. 2015 Apr;7(2):75-81.

Efficacy of Clarithromycin Containing Bismuth-Based Regimen as a Second-Line 
Therapy in Helicobacter Pylori Eradication.

Mokhtare M(1), Agah S(1), Fakheri H(2), Hosseini V(2), Rezaei Hemami M(1), 
Ghafoori SM(3).

Author information:
(1)Colorectal Research Center (CRRC), Rasoul Akram Hospital, Iran University of 
Medical Sciences (IUMS), Tehran, Iran.
(2)Inflammatory Diseases of the Upper Gastrointestinal Tract Research Center, 
Mazandaran University of Medical Sciences, Sari, Iran.
(3)Colorectal Research Center (CRRC), Rasoul Akram Hospital, Iran University of 
Medical Sciences (IUMS), Tehran, Iran ; Medical Student Research Committee 
(MSRC),Faculty of Medicine, Iran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND The eradication of Helicobacter pylori infection, commonly prevailing 
in the stomach, has been important since its introduction. Adequate preparations 
should be made in finding alternatives when faced with first-line treatment 
failures. Currently, ideal second-line treatments are indistinct and varied 
among countries as result of different antibiotic resistance patterns. We aimed 
to evaluate the safety and efficacy of a clarithromycin-containing bismuth-based 
quadruple regimen as a second-line treatment. METHODS Forty-eight 
H.pylori-positive patients with proven gastric or duodenal ulcers and/or 
erosions who had previously failed to respond to furazolidone-containing 
regimens were enrolled. They received pantoprazole (40 mg-bid), amoxicillin 
(1gr-bid), bismuth subcitrate (240 mg-bid), and clarithromycin (500mg-bid) for 
10 days. Eight weeks after treatment, a (14)C-urea breath test was performed for 
the re-evaluation of H. pylori eradication. RESULTS Forty-three patients 
completed the study. H.pylori eradication rates were 79.2% (95% CI=65.00-89.53) 
and 88.4% (95% CI=74.91-96.11) according to intention-to-treat and per-protocol 
analyses, respectively. All patients had excellent compliance to treatment and 
one did not continue therapy because of adverse effects. CONCLUSION In 
developing countries such as Iran, a ten-day clarithromycin-containing 
bismuth-based quadruple regimen is encouraged as a second-line treatment because 
of the acceptable rate of eradication and low adverse effects.

PMCID: PMC4430795
PMID: 26106466


363. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 1999 Apr;13(4):497-501. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-2036.1999.00493.x.

The optimal antibiotic combination in a 5-day Helicobacter pylori eradication 
regimen.

Neville PM(1), Everett S, Langworthy H, Tompkins D, Mapstone NP, Axon AT, 
Moayyedi P.

Author information:
(1)Leeds General Infirmary, Leeds, UK. petnev@yahoo.com

Comment in
    Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 1999 Sep;13(9):1252-3. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-2036.1999.0612c.x.

BACKGROUND: Current guidelines for Helicobacter pylori eradication recommend 7 
days of a proton-pump inhibitor, clarithromycin (C), and either metronidazole 
(M) or amoxycillin (A). A shorter course would be cheaper and could be as 
effective.
AIM: This study was designed to investigate the efficacy of three 5-day regimens 
based on lansoprazole (L).
METHODS: 168 dyspepsia patients with H. pylori infection were randomized to 
receive a 5-day course of either LCM, LAC or CALM, and a 13C-urea breath test 
was performed after 4 weeks to assess eradication.
RESULTS: 160 patients completed the study. Intention-to-treat eradication rates 
were as follows: LCM 81%, LAC 59%, CALM 88%. LCM and CALM gave significantly 
better eradication rates than LAC. There was no significant difference in 
adverse events across the three groups. Logistical regression analysis showed 
that the specific regimen used and the age of the patient were the only factors 
influencing eradication outcome.
CONCLUSIONS: Five days of CALM yields acceptable eradication rates, and is 
cheaper than conventional 7-day proton pump inhibitor-triple therapy. It appears 
to offer good results in metronidazole-resistant strains of H. pylori. A 
randomized trial comparing 5-day CALM with conventional 7-day therapy is needed 
before this regimen can be recommended for routine use.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2036.1999.00493.x
PMID: 10215734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Scand J Gastroenterol. 2016;51(2):145-51. doi: 10.3109/00365521.2015.1079646. 
Epub 2015 Oct 5.

Concomitant versus sequential therapy for the treatment of Helicobacter pylori 
infection: a Greek randomized prospective study.

Apostolopoulos P(1), Koumoutsos I(1), Ekmektzoglou K(1), Dogantzis P(1), Vlachou 
E(1), Kalantzis C(1), Tsibouris P(1), Alexandrakis G(1).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Gastroenterology , Army Share Fund Hospital (NIMTS) , Athens 
, Greece.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study is to compare, in Greece, a region with 
>20% local resistance to clarithromycin, the efficacy rates of the concomitant 
versus the sequential H. pylori eradication therapy.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Our prospective randomized study included 364 patients 
with newly diagnosed H. pylori infection, randomized to receive a 10-day 
concomitant or 10-day sequential therapy. Treatment outcome was assessed by 
C(13)-urea breath test at least 4 weeks after therapy. Intention to treat (ITT) 
and per protocol (PP) analysis of the eradication rates were performed. 
Secondary end points included patient compliance and safety.
RESULTS: The concomitant therapy group achieved statistically significant higher 
eradication rates when compared with the sequential treatment group, both in the 
ITT and in the PP analysis (84.6% versus 70.9%, p = 0.002, and 90.6% versus 
78.1%, p = 0.001, respectively), after adjusting for age, gender, smoking 
status, and the presence or not of ulcer and/or non-ulcer dyspepsia. Both groups 
displayed excellent compliance rates (99.5% for the concomitant therapy group 
and 96.2% for the sequential therapy group, p = 0.067). Regarding treatment 
safety, major adverse events that led to the discontinuation of both regimens 
were few, with no statistical difference between the two groups (7.0% for the 
concomitant therapy group and 2.9% for the sequential therapy group).
CONCLUSIONS: Concomitant therapy led to statistically significant higher 
eradication rates over sequential therapy. Both therapies showed excellent 
compliance and an acceptable safety profile. The 10-day quadruple concomitant 
scheme should be the adopted for first-line H. pylori eradication in Greece.

DOI: 10.3109/00365521.2015.1079646
PMID: 26435055 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Ann Pharm Fr. 2016 Sep;74(5):380-8. doi: 10.1016/j.pharma.2015.12.004. Epub 2016 
Jan 13.

[Pharmacist interventions on antibiotic prescriptions in outpatient pediatric 
unit in a teaching hospital of Côte d'Ivoire].

[Article in French]

Abrogoua DP(1), Koffi NO(2), Doffou E(3).

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de pharmacie clinique et thérapeutique, UFR sciences 
pharmaceutiques et biologiques, université Félix Houphouët-Boigny, Abidjan, Côte 
d'Ivoire; Service de pharmacologie clinique, CHU de Cocody, Abidjan, Côte 
d'Ivoire. Electronic address: abrogouadp@yahoo.fr.
(2)Laboratoire de pharmacie clinique et thérapeutique, UFR sciences 
pharmaceutiques et biologiques, université Félix Houphouët-Boigny, Abidjan, Côte 
d'Ivoire.
(3)Service pharmacie, CHU de Yopougon, Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire.

OBJECTIVES: The objectives of our study were to analyse the prescriptions of 
antibiotics and assessing the relevance of pharmacist interventions (PI) in 
outpatient consultations in a pediatric unit of a Teaching Hospital of Abidjan, 
Côte d'Ivoire.
METHODS: We conducted a cross-sectional descriptive study from May to December 
2013. The analysis of antibiotic prescriptions was documented. The tool of PI 
classification validated by the French Society of Clinical Pharmacy was used. 
The PI rating was made by prescribers. This rating evolved from PI0 to 
PI3 depending on the severity of the clinical impact of the problem and to the 
severity of clinical consequences avoided by the PI. The relevance was evaluated 
by the PI acceptance rate by physicians and clinical evaluation of their impact.
RESULTS: Our study included 150 patients with a mean age of 11.75 months and a 
sex ratio (M/F) of 2. The amoxicillin-clavulanic acid (27.2 %) and amoxicillin 
(22.3 %) were the most prescribed antibiotics. Sixty-three drug-related problems 
(DRPs) were detected on the antibiotic prescriptions. They were non-optimal drug 
administration plan (88.9 %) and underdose (11.1 %). The amoxicillin-clavulanic 
acid (61.9 %) and josamycin (17.4 %) were the most affected by these DRPs. PI 
were related to the precision of modes of drug administration (88.9 %) and dose 
adjustments (11.1 %). The prescribers accepted 93.7 % of PIs. All accepted PIs 
was rated PI1 (significant clinical impact).
CONCLUSIONS: PIs performed on antibiotic prescription were relevant with a high 
rate of acceptance and a significant clinical impact.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pharma.2015.12.004
PMID: 26774460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Dig Dis Sci. 2005 Apr;50(4):623-5. doi: 10.1007/s10620-005-2546-4.

Comparison of proton pump inhibitor-based triple therapy with losec and the 
generic drug, Omepradex, for efficacy of Helicobacter pylori eradication.

Niv Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Rabin Medical Center, Beilinson Campus, 
Israel. yniv@clalit.org.il

Triple therapy with a proton pump inhibitor (PPI), amoxicillin, and 
clarithromycin is widely accepted in Israel for Helicobacter pylori eradication. 
Recently, a generic drug for omeprazole was introduced to the market, but its 
efficacy as a PPI was questioned. The aim of the study was to compare 
eradication efficacy of triple therapy-based regimens with Losec (Astra-Zeneca, 
Sweden) and the generic form, Omepradex (Dexxon, Israel). People belonging to 
Clalit Health Services (CHS), the biggest health insurance provider in Israel, 
and receiving omeprazole (Losec or Omepradex) for 7 days (assumed to be 
Helicobacter pylori eradication purposes), between 1.1.2001 and 31.12.2001, were 
retrieved from the CHS central computer. Of 450 patients (287 in the Losec group 
and 163 in the Omepradex group), 97 (21.6%) underwent 13C-urea breath test 
(13CUBT) for validation of Helicobacter pylori successful eradication and 
participated in the study. They were all treated with triple therapy with 
omeprazole, amoxicillin, and clarithromycin, and were stratified according to 
the PPI used: Group A, Losec; and Group B, Omepradex. Positivity of 13CUBT was 
computed. Sixty-one (21.25%) and 36 (22.08%) patients in Groups A and B, 
respectively, underwent 13 CUBT for validation of successful Helicobacter pylori 
eradication (NS). In Group A 41 of 61 patients (67.21%) had a negative 13CUBT, 
in comparison with 26 of 36 (72.22%) in Group B (NS). Using logistic regression 
analysis all confounding factors were found to be noncontributory to the 
discrimination between negative (successful eradication) and positive (failed 
eradication) 13CUBT. There is no statistically significant difference between 
Losec and the generic drug Omepradex as part of a PPI-based triple therapy for 
eradication efficacy of Helicobacter pylori.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-005-2546-4
PMID: 15844691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Hernia. 2001 Sep;5(3):148-52. doi: 10.1007/s100290100026.

Antibiotic prophylaxis in incisional hernia repair using a prosthesis.

Ríos A(1), Rodríguez JM, Munitiz V, Alcaraz P, Pérez Flores D, Parrilla P.

Author information:
(1)Department of General and Digestive Surgery, Virgen de la Arrixaca University 
Hospital, El Palmar, Murcia, Spain. ARZRIOS@teleline.es

Antibiotic prophylaxis in clean surgery with implantation of prosthetic material 
is widely accepted, although there are no studies on its use in abdominal 
incisional hernia repair. The objective was to evaluate antibiotic 
chemoprophylaxis in incisional herniorrhaphy with the implantation of prosthetic 
material. A prospective non-randomized study (1990-1998) was conducted to 
analyse 216 patients undergoing surgery for abdominal incisional hernia who 
required a prosthesis (polypropylene) in the reconstruction and who met the 
criteria for clean surgery. Risk factors were observed in 31.5%, the most 
frequent being diabetes and obesity. The incisional hernia was located mostly in 
the abdominal midline and in 64.4% measured over 10 cm. Antibiotic prophylaxis 
was administered in 140 patients (64.8%) via the systemic route, the antibiotics 
being first- or second-generation cephalosporins or amoxicillin-clavulanic acid. 
Surgical wound infection occurred in 39 patients (18.1%), 19 who had received 
antibiotic prophylaxis (13.6%) and 20 who had not (26.3%). In multivariate 
analysis using logistic regression, the variables with statistical significance 
for local septic infection were antibiotic prophylaxis and number of risk 
factors. We can conclude therefore that antibiotic chemoprophylaxis is useful in 
abdominal incisional herniorrhaphy surgery with implantation of prosthetic 
material for reducing local septic complications.

DOI: 10.1007/s100290100026
PMID: 11759801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2009 Oct;53(10):4305-10. doi: 10.1128/AAC.00444-09. 
Epub 2009 Aug 10.

Pilot study of ampicillin-ceftriaxone combination for treatment of orthopedic 
infections due to Enterococcus faecalis.

Euba G(1), Lora-Tamayo J, Murillo O, Pedrero S, Cabo J, Verdaguer R, Ariza J.

Author information:
(1)Infectious Diseases Department, IDIBELL, Hospital Universitari de Bellvitge, 
Barcelona, Spain. goranee@bellvitgehospital.cat

Serious Enterococcus faecalis infections usually require combination therapy to 
achieve a bactericidal effect. In orthopedic infections, the prognosis of 
enterococcal etiology is considered poor, and the use of aminoglycosides is 
questioned. The ampicillin-ceftriaxone combination has recently been accepted as 
alternative therapy for enterococcal endocarditis. After one of our patients 
with endocarditis and vertebral osteomyelitis was cured with 
ampicillin-ceftriaxone, we started a pilot study of orthopedic infections. 
Patients with infections due to E. faecalis (with two or more surgical samples 
or blood cultures) diagnosed during 2005 to 2008 were recruited. Polymicrobial 
infections with ampicillin- and ceftriaxone-resistant microorganisms were 
excluded. Patients received ampicillin (8 to 16 g/day)-ceftriaxone (2 to 4 
g/day) and were followed up prospectively. Of 31 patients with E. faecalis 
infections, 10 received ampicillin-ceftriaxone. Including the first patient, 11 
patients were treated with ampicillin-ceftriaxone: 3 with prosthetic joint 
infections, 3 with instrumented spine arthrodesis device infections, 2 with 
osteosynthesis device infections, 1 with foot osteomyelitis, and 2 with 
vertebral osteomyelitis and endocarditis. Six infections (55%) were 
polymicrobial. All cases except the vertebral osteomyelitis ones required 
surgery, with retention of foreign material in six cases. Ampicillin-ceftriaxone 
was given for 25 days (interquartile range, 15 to 34 days), followed by 
amoxicillin (amoxicilline) being given to seven patients (64%). One patient with 
endocarditis died within 2 weeks (hemorrhagic stroke) and was not evaluable. For 
one patient with prosthesis retention, the infection persisted; 9/10 patients 
(90%) were cured, but 1 patient was superinfected. Follow-up was for 21 months 
(interquartile range, 14 to 36 months). Ampicillin-ceftriaxone may be a 
reasonable synergistic combination to treat orthopedic infections due to E. 
faecalis. Our experience, though limited, shows good outcomes and tolerability 
and may provide a basis for further well-designed comparative studies.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.00444-09
PMCID: PMC2764214
PMID: 19667290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. J AOAC Int. 2020 Sep 1;103(5):1268-1276. doi: 10.1093/jaoacint/qsaa022.

BL30SEC Method for Detection of Beta-Lactams in Raw Commingled Cow Milk: AOAC 
Performance Tested MethodSM 061902.

Markovsky RJ(1), Douglas DW(1), Sullivan R(1), Tran AC(1), Legg DR(1), McRobbie 
LW(1), Schwartz JA(1), Salter RS(1), Klass N(2), Knoop S(2), Bastin B(2), 
Crowley E(2), Agin J(2), Goins D(2), Kalinowsky E(3).

Author information:
(1)Charm Sciences, Inc, 659 Andover St, Lawrence, MA 01843, USA.
(2)Q Laboratories, Inc, 1400 Harrison Avenue, Cincinnati, OH 45214-1606, USA.
(3)Eurofins-DQCI, 5205 Quincy Street, Mounds View, MN 55112, USA.

Testing milk for antibiotics before acceptance into dairies is required by the 
U.S. Pasteurized Milk Ordinance. Technological advances in tests have reduced 
screening times and improved detection accuracy. This work describes the 
validation of the Charm Rapid One Step Assay Beta-Lactam 30 Second Test 
according to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration Center for Veterinary 
Medicine protocol for raw commingled milk. Milk is added to the lateral flow 
test strip in an incubator/reader to deliver a 30 second result. Independent 
laboratory validation followed sensitivity, interference, and incurred residue 
protocols. Sensitivity, in parts per billion (ppb = µg/kg), using a probit curve 
determined 90% percent detection with 95% confidence, which met National 
Conference of Interstate Milk Shipments (NCIMS) specifications. Six U.S. 
approved beta-lactam drugs were detected below, but within 50% of, 
target/tolerance levels for penicillin G 2.9 ppb, ampicillin 5.9 ppb, 
amoxicillin 5.8 ppb, cephapirin 13 ppb, cloxacillin 8.1 ppb, and ceftiofur 
metabolites 73 ppb. No interferences were observed from 33 animal drugs at 
100 ppb, somatic cells at 1.2 million/mL, or bacterial levels of >300 000 
CFU/mL. Incurred residue detection levels were similar to levels determined with 
the spiked parent compound. The data support NCIMS that the BL30SEC method met 
U.S. criteria for testing milk for beta-lactams.

© AOAC INTERNATIONAL 2020. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email: 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jaoacint/qsaa022
PMID: 33241400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Chest. 2003 Aug;124(2):526-35. doi: 10.1378/chest.124.2.526.

An economic evaluation of sequential i.v./po moxifloxacin therapy compared to 
i.v./po co-amoxiclav with or without clarithromycin in the treatment of 
community-acquired pneumonia.

Drummond MF(1), Becker DL, Hux M, Chancellor JV, Duprat-Lomon I, Kubin R, 
Sagnier PP.

Author information:
(1)Innovus Research (UK) Ltd, High Wycombe, Bucks, UK.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To evaluate costs, clinical consequences, and 
cost-effectiveness from a German and French health-care system perspective of 
sequential i.v./po moxifloxacin monotherapy compared to co-amoxiclav with or 
without clarithromycin (AMC +/- CLA) in patients with community-acquired 
pneumonia (CAP) who required parenteral treatment.
METHODS: Costs and consequences over 21 days were evaluated based on clinical 
cure rates 5 to 7 days after treatment and health resource use reported for the 
TARGET multinational, prospective, randomized, open-label trial. This trial 
compared sequential i.v./po monotherapy with moxifloxacin (400 mg qd) to i.v./po 
co-amoxiclav (1.2 g i.v./625 mg po tid) with or without clarithromycin (500 mg 
bid) for 7 to 14 days in hospitalized patients with CAP. Since no 
country-by-treatment interaction was found in spite of some country differences 
for length of hospital stays, resource data (antimicrobial treatment, 
hospitalization, and out-of-hospital care) from all centers were pooled and 
valued using German and French unit prices to estimate CAP-related cost to the 
German Sickness Funds and French public health-care sector, respectively.
RESULTS: Compared to AMC +/- CLA, treatment with moxifloxacin resulted in 5.3% 
more patients achieving clinical cure 5 to 7 days after therapy (95% confidence 
interval [CI], 1.2 to 11.8%), increased speed of response (1 day sooner for 
median time to first return to apyrexia, p = 0.008), and a reduction in hospital 
stay by 0.81 days (95% CI, - 0.01 to 1.63) within the 21-day time frame. 
Treatment with moxifloxacin resulted in savings of 266 euro and 381 euro for 
Germany and France respectively, primarily due to the shorter length of hospital 
stay. Cost-effectiveness acceptability curves show moxifloxacin has a > or = 95% 
chance of being cost saving from French and German health-care perspectives, and 
higher probability of being cost-effective at acceptability thresholds up to 
2,000 euro per additional patient cured.
CONCLUSION: i.v./po monotherapy with moxifloxacin shows clinical benefits 
including increased speed of response and is cost-effective compared to i.v./po 
AMC +/- CLA in the treatment of CAP.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.124.2.526
PMID: 12907538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. J Clin Periodontol. 2004 Nov;31(11):933-8. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-051X.2004.00591.x.

Periodontal treatment of patients with Papillon-Lefèvre syndrome: a 3-year 
follow-up.

Lundgren T(1), Renvert S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Periodontics, Loma Linda University, California 92354, USA. 
tlundgren@sd.llu.edu

BACKGROUND/AIM: Conventional mechanical periodontal treatment of 
Papillon-Lefevre syndrome (PLS) has often been reported to fail. This study 
describes the outcome of a non-surgical periodontal therapy including 
antimicrobial treatment of nine patients diagnosed with PLS. The patients 
originate from a total of 15 children and adolescents with PLS for which 
clinical characteristics are presented.
METHODS: Clinical examination including conventional periodontal measurements. 
Initial treatment including oral hygiene instruction, scaling and root planing 
and systemic amoxicillin-metronidazole therapy for 6 weeks. After that the 
patients were enrolled in a 3-month recall maintenance program. In addition to 
this mechanical supportive maintenance treatment, tetracycline was prescribed 
and used continuously for 1.5 years.
RESULTS/CONCLUSION: On five patients who were showing acceptable standard of 
oral hygiene and also compliance with the antibiotic medication, development of 
periodontitis on erupting teeth was prevented and disease activity on the 
previously periodontally involved teeth controlled during a 3-year period. Poor 
results of treatment were observed for three patients, all siblings. These 
patients failed to comply with the medication and also failed to improve their 
oral hygiene.

(c) Blackwell Munksgaard, 2004

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-051X.2004.00591.x
PMID: 15491306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. JMM Case Rep. 2017 May 9;4(5):e005095. doi: 10.1099/jmmcr.0.005095. eCollection 
2017 May.

Lower extremity mycotic aneurysm in a patient with Listeria monocytogenes - 
associated prosthetic valve endocarditis.

Rahmati E(1), Jan Geiseler P(1), She RC(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Infectious Diseases, Keck School of 
Medicine of the USC- LAC, Los Angeles, USA.
(2)Department of Pathology, Keck School of Medicine of the University of 
Southern California, Los Angeles, USA.

Introduction.Listeria monocytogenes is a rare etiology of infectious 
endocarditis with only 30 cases of prosthetic valve and about twice as many 
native valve infections described in the literature. We describe an unusual 
presentation of an endovascular embolic phenomenon with associated lower 
extremity mycotic aneurysm due to Listeria monocytogenes prosthetic aortic valve 
and aortic endograft infection. Case presentation. This is a case of an elderly 
gentleman with prior history of bioprosthetic aortic valve placement and aortic 
arch repair who was admitted with several weeks of constitutional symptoms and 
left lower leg pain. Diagnostic work-up was consistent with thrombosed popliteal 
artery aneurysm. Blood cultures were positive for Listeria monocytogenes. A 
transesophageal echocardiogram revealed vegetation on the bioprosthetic valve. 
The patient underwent arterial bypass and ligation of the aneurysm as well as 
redoing of his aortic valve and aortic graft replacement. Histopathology of the 
aortic valve was remarkable for acute inflammation and Gram-positive 
coccobacilli and bacilli occupying intracellular spaces. The results of 
broad-range bacterial 16S rRNA PCR and sequence analysis of unfixed aortic valve 
tissue confirmed detection of L. monocytogenes. Conclusion. Infective 
endocarditis attributable to species of the genus Listeriais a rare entity. As 
such, there are no specific guidelines for treatment of Listeria 
monocytogenesendocarditis. However, combination of penicillin or ampicillin with 
gentamicin is the most acceptable approach described in the literature. Our 
patient was treated with ampicillin and gentamicin for 6 weeks followed by 
life-long amoxicillin suppression therapy. The patient remained asymptomatic at 
a 6 months follow up visit.

DOI: 10.1099/jmmcr.0.005095
PMCID: PMC5630964
PMID: 29026622


373. J Med Assoc Thai. 2000 Mar;83(3):230-5.

Eradication of Helicobacter pylori with lansoprazole based triple therapy in 
peptic ulcer disease.

Kullavanijaya P(1), Gonlachanvit S, Mahachai V, Kladchareon N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Chulalongkorn University 
Hospital, Bangkok, Thailand.

Lansoprazole 30 mg, amoxicillin 1000 mg, and tinidazole 500 mg were given twice 
daily to 39 peptic ulcer patients (26 duodenal and 13 gastric ulcer, mean age 
52.4 +/- 15.01) who had H. pylori infection for two weeks. Additional 
lansoprazole 30 mg daily was given to duodenal and gastric ulcer patients for 
another two and six weeks respectively. Follow-up gastroduodenoscope was 
performed at fourth and eighth week and eighth and twelfth week for all duodenal 
and gastric ulcer patients, respectively. H. pylori status was evaluated by 
rapid urease test (CLO test) and histology at first and last endoscope. The 
ulcers were healed at the last endoscopy in 11 (85%) gastric ulcer patients and 
24 (92%) duodenal ulcers patients. H. pylori infection was eradicated in 31 
patients (79%). Mild side effects were observed in 15 per cent. In conclusion, 2 
week regimen of lansoprazole, amoxicillin, and tinidazole triple therapy 
resulted in a relatively high healing rate of peptic ulcer (90%) and an 
acceptable eradication rate of H. pylori infection (79%).

PMID: 10808676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Yao Xue Xue Bao. 2014 Aug;49(8):1155-61.

[Dissolution testing combined with computer simulation technology to evaluate 
the bioequivalence of domestic amoxicillin capsule].

[Article in Chinese]

Pan RX, Gao Y, Chen WL, Li YL, Hu CQ.

Re-evaluation of bioequivalence of generic drugs is one of the key research 
focus currently. As a means to ensure consistency of the therapeutic 
effectiveness of drug products, clinical bioequivalence has been widely accepted 
as a gold standard test. In vitro dissolution testing based on the theory of the 
BCS is the best alternative to in vivo bioequivalence study. In this article, 
the conventional dissolution method and flow-through cell method were used to 
investigate the dissolution profiles of domestic amoxicillin capsules in 
different dissolution media, and the absorption behavior of the drugs with 
different release rates (t85% = 15-180 min) in the gastrointestinal tract was 
predicted by Gastro Plus. The flow-through cell method was thought better to 
reflect the release characteristics in vivo, and amoxicillin capsules with 
regard to the release rates up to 45 min (t85% = 45 min) were having a satisfied 
bioequivalence with the oral solution according to the C(max) and AUC. Although 
two different dissolution profiles of domestic amoxicillin capsules were found 
by flow-through cell methods, prediction results revealed that domestic capsules 
were probably bioequivalent to each other.

PMID: 25322558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. PLoS One. 2018 Jan 4;13(1):e0190583. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0190583. 
eCollection 2018.

Management of minor ailments in a community pharmacy setting: Findings from 
simulated visits and qualitative study in Gondar town, Ethiopia.

Ayele AA(1), Mekuria AB(2), Tegegn HG(1), Gebresillassie BM(1), Mekonnen AB(1), 
Erku DA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, School of Pharmacy, College of Medicine and 
Health Sciences, University of Gondar, Gondar, Ethiopia.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, School of Pharmacy, College of Medicine and 
Health Sciences, University of Gondar, Gondar, Ethiopia.

Community pharmacy professionals are being widely accepted as sources of 
treatment and advice for managing minor ailments, largely owing to their 
location at the heart of the community. The aim of the present study was, 
therefore, to document the involvement of community pharmacy professionals in 
the management of minor ailments and perceived barriers that limit their 
provision of such services. Simulated patient (SP) visits combined with a 
qualitative study using in-depth interviews was conducted among community 
pharmacy professionals in Gondar town, Northwest Ethiopia. Scenarios of three 
different minor ailments (uncomplicated upper respiratory tract infection, back 
pain and acute diarrhea) were selected and results were reported as percentages. 
Pharmacy professionals were also interviewed about the barriers in the 
management of minor ailments. Out of 66 simulated visits, 61 cases (92.4%) 
provided one or more medications to the SPs. Pharmacy professionals in 16 visits 
asked SPs information on details of symptoms and past medical and medication 
history. Ibuprofen alone or in combination with paracetamol was the most 
commonly dispensed analgesics for back pain. Oral rehydration fluid (ORS) with 
zinc was the most frequently dispensed medication (33.3%) for the management of 
acute diarrhea followed by mebendazole (23.9%). Moreover, amoxicillin-clavulanic 
acid capsule (35%) followed by Amoxicillin (25%) were the most commonly 
dispensed antibiotics for uncomplicated upper respiratory tract infection. Lack 
of clinical training and poor community awareness towards the role of community 
pharmacists in the management of minor ailments were the main barriers for the 
provision of minor ailment management by community pharmacy professionals. 
Overall, community pharmacists provided inadequate therapy for the simulated 
minor ailments. Lack of access to clinical training and poor community awareness 
were the most commonly cited barriers for providing such services. So as to 
improve community pharmacists' involvement in managing minor ailments and 
optimize the contribution of pharmacists, interventions should focus on 
overcoming the identified barriers.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0190583
PMCID: PMC5754123
PMID: 29300785 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


376. Sante. 2011 Oct-Dec;21(4):221-5. doi: 10.1684/san.2011.0273.

[Epidemiology, microbiology, and outcomes of septicemia in children treated at 
the Charles de Gaulle University Pediatric Hospital in Burkina Faso].

[Article in French]

Ouédraogo AS(1), Dakouré-Kissou A, Poda GE, Koueta F, Yé-Ouattara D, 
Ouédraogo-Traoré R.

Author information:
(1)CHU Souro Sanou Département des laboratoires Bobo-Dioulasso Burkina Faso.

The aim of this study is to describe the epidemiological and microbiological 
characteristics and outcome of children with septicemia at the Charles de Gaulle 
University Pediatric Hospital of Ouagadougou to help improve probabilistic 
antibiotic therapy in this type of infection. This retrospective descriptive 
study covered all the children from 0 to 15 years old seen over a period of 7 
years in any hospital department with suspected bacteriemia and for whom the 
bacteriology laboratory performed a blood culture. During the study period, the 
laboratory received 842 requests for blood cultures and found 154 (18.3%) of 
them to be positive. Files for 81 of the 154 patients could be found and 
examined. The distribution according to age showed septicemia was most frequent 
among those aged 6-15 years (61.7% of the cases). Microbial identification 
showed the dominant species to be Salmonella enterica (serovars paratyphi and 
typhi) (58%) followed by Staphylococcus aureus (12.3%). The salmonella isolates 
had a high rate of resistance to amoxicillin, chloramphenicol and cotrimoxazole. 
Staphylococci were always sensitive to the antibiotics with which they were 
tested, although to a lesser extent for penicillin G. All patients routinely 
received antibiotic treatment, and 81.5% (n=66) were cured (5 children died and 
10 left the hospital against medical advice). This study shows that the 
bacterial epidemiology of septicemia in our setting is dominated by salmonella. 
Trends in bacterial resistance to antibiotics showed that common antibiotics 
such as amoxicillin and cotrimoxazole are no longer acceptable as probabilist 
therapy here. They should be replaced in this type of infection by injectable 
third generation cephalosporin alone or combined with aminoglycosides.

DOI: 10.1684/san.2011.0273
PMID: 22407247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Am Fam Physician. 1997 Jun;55(8):2765-74, 2784-6.

Treatment strategies for Helicobacter pylori infection.

Damianos AJ(1), McGarrity TJ.

Author information:
(1)Pennsylvania State University College of Medicine, Hershey, USA.

Comment in
    Am Fam Physician. 1998 Feb 15;57(4):631-2.

Peptic ulcer disease is strongly associated with infection by Helicobacter 
pylori, a spiral-shaped, flagellated organism found predominantly in the gastric 
antrum. More than 90 percent of duodenal ulcers and adenocarcinomas of the 
distal stomach are associated with H. pylori infection. Eradication of the 
organism effectively prevents relapses of gastroduodenal ulcers associated with 
H. pylori. In patients undergoing endoscopy, the rapid urease test is highly 
sensitive and specific in diagnosing H. pylori infection. Noninvasive diagnostic 
methods include serologic antibody measurements and urea breath testing. Empiric 
therapy may be tried if the diagnosis is suspected on a clinical basis. 
Traditional 14-day "triple therapy" with bismuth, metronidazole and either 
amoxicillin or tetracycline has consistently produced eradication rates of 
approximately 90 percent. Newer combination regimens have shown promise in a 
smaller number of studies. No single agent given as monotherapy has proved to be 
acceptably effective in clinical studies.

PMID: 9191460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 1998 Mar;13(3):301-4. doi: 
10.1111/j.1440-1746.1998.01559.x.

A prospective randomized study of amoxycillin and omeprazole with and without 
metronidazole in the eradication treatment of Helicobacter pylori.

Koizumi W(1), Tanabe S, Hibi K, Imaizumi H, Ohida M, Okabe H, Saigenji K, 
Okayasu I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, East Hospital, Kitasato University School of 
Medicine, Kanagawa-ken, Japan.

A combination of amoxycillin and omeprazole is often used to treat Helicobacter 
pylori infection. A three-drug regimen comprising metronidazole, amoxycillin and 
omeprazole has been proposed as an alternative therapy. In a prospective, 
randomized, comparative study, we evaluated these two regimens with respect to 
safety and efficacy in patients with H. pylori infection. Sixty patients with 
peptic ulcer (gastric, 32 patients; duodenal, 28 patients) who had a history of 
ulcer recurrence were randomly assigned to dual therapy with amoxycillin (500 mg 
three times daily for 2 weeks) and omeprazole (20 mg once daily for 8 weeks) or 
to triple therapy with metronidazole (500 mg twice daily for 2 weeks) plus 
amoxycillin and omeprazole, given in the same dosages as dual therapy. 
Forty-eight patients completed the protocol; treatment was discontinued because 
of side effects in nine patients, and three patients dropped out of the study. 
On the basis of all patients treated, the rate of H. pylori eradication was 
significantly higher for triple therapy 20/23 cases, 87.0%; 95% confidence 
interval (CI), 0.664-0.972) than for dual therapy 13/25, 52.0%; 0.313-0.722; P < 
0.05). On an intention-to-treat basis, the difference between the groups in the 
rate of H. pylori eradication was marginally significant (P = 0.06 
[0.028-0.512]). Side effects were reported by five patients receiving triple 
therapy (skin rash, one; nausea, two; headache, one; abdominal pain, one), and 
four patients receiving dual therapy (skin rash, two; abdominal pain, one; 
diarrhoea, one). All side effects resolved spontaneously after termination of 
treatment. There was no significant difference in safety between the two 
regimens. Triple therapy with metronidazole, amoxycillin, and omeprazole was 
significantly more effective for the eradication of H. pylori than dual therapy 
with amoxycillin and omeprazole alone. The safety of these regimens was similar, 
and triple therapy was found to be clinically acceptable.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1746.1998.01559.x
PMID: 9570244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2014 Jun;29(6):1171-6. doi: 10.1111/jgh.12518.

Efficacy of hybrid therapy as first-line regimen for Helicobacter pylori 
infection compared with sequential therapy.

Oh DH, Lee DH, Kang KK, Park YS, Shin CM, Kim N, Yoon H, Hwang JH, Jeoung SH, 
Kim JW, Jang ES, Jung HC.

BACKGROUND AND AIM: Recent prospective studies have shown that the sequential 
therapy has not achieved the target Helicobacter pylori eradication rate of > 
80% in Korea. The aim of this study was to therefore assess the efficacy of the 
hybrid therapy as a first-line treatment for H. pylori eradication in a 
prospective trial.
METHODS: From December 2012 to August 2013, 184 patients with confirmed 
H. pylori infections received either the 14-day hybrid therapy or the 14-day 
sequential therapy. Eradication outcomes were evaluated using a 13C-urea breath 
test at least 4 weeks after treatment cessation.
RESULTS: A total of 184 patients (90 receiving hybrid treatment and 94 receiving 
sequential treatment) completed the study. The eradication rates of the hybrid 
and sequential therapy groups were 81.1% (73/90; 95% confidence interval [CI] = 
73.0-89.2%) and 79.8% (75/94; 95%CI = 71.7-87.9%), respectively, by 
intention-to-treat analysis (P = 0.821). By per protocol analysis, eradication 
rates were 85.9% (73/85; 95%CI = 78.5-93.3%) and 82.0% (73/89; 95%CI = 
74.0-89.9%; P = 0.489), respectively. There were no significant intergroup 
differences in treatment compliance or discontinuation induced by severe side 
effects.
CONCLUSIONS: The hybrid therapy achieved acceptable eradication rate (85.9%), 
but not statistically significantly higher rates than the sequential therapy 
(82.0%). Further studies are therefore needed to identify first-line treatments 
with even better eradication rates in the Korean population.

DOI: 10.1111/jgh.12518
PMID: 24955448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Scand J Gastroenterol Suppl. 1995;208:47-52.

The current role of Helicobacter pylori eradication in clinical practice.

Hunt RH(1), Mohamed AH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, McMaster University Medical Centre, Hamilton, 
Ontario, Canada.

Helicobacter pylori is probably the commonest bacterial infection worldwide and 
is now accepted as the cause of chronic active type B gastritis. It is 
increasingly accepted as having a critical role in duodenal ulcer, where the 
prevalence of infection is 90 to 100%. More important is the dramatic reduction 
in duodenal ulcer recurrence after successful eradication of the organism to 
about 4% in a year compared to recurrences of up to 80% in those whose ulcers 
have been healed but in whom the infection persists. There is increasing 
evidence that what is now clear for duodenal ulcers may also hold true for 
patients with a gastric ulcer who are infected with H. pylori. Moreover, 
evidence is accumulating that the risk of a duodenal ulcer complication, such 
as, bleeding, is reduced following successful eradication of H. pylori. The 
treatment of duodenal ulcer patients with H. pylori eradication treatment has 
been advocated by an international working party who met first in Sydney at the 
1990 World Congress and subsequently in Athens during the First European 
Gastroenterology Week. The most recent recommendation suggests that the 
infection should be treated in any duodenal ulcer patient after the first 
recurrence, and that a triple therapy regimen or a proton pump inhibitor 
combined with either amoxicillin or clarithromycin may be prescribed. The 
combination of a proton pump inhibitor and an antibiotic can eradicate H. pylori 
in over 80% of cases and simultaneously offers the advantage of rapid symptom 
relief and the highest rates of duodenal ulcer healing.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 
250 WORDS)

PMID: 7777804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Helicobacter. 2004 Aug;9(4):285-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1083-4389.2004.00240.x.

Total family unit Helicobacter pylori eradication and pediatric re-infection 
rates.

Farrell S(1), Milliken I, Doherty GM, Murphy JL, Wootton SA, McCallion WA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Child Health, Institute of Clinical Science, Queen's University 
Belfast, UK. s.farrell@qub.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Re-infection with Helicobacter pylori is more common in children 
than adults, and it is generally accepted that the family unit plays a 
significant role in primary childhood infection. We investigated whether the 
family unit plays a significant role in pediatric re-infection and if 
eradication of H. pylori from the entire family reduces the risk of childhood 
re-infection.
METHODS: Fifty families, each with an H. pylori-infected pediatric index case 
(mean age 9.48 years), were recruited. A 13carbon urea breath test was performed 
on all family members in the same house as the index case. Each family unit was 
randomized into a 'family unit treatment' group (all infected family members 
treated) or an 'index case treatment' group (index case only treated).
RESULTS: At long-term follow-up (mean 62.2 months), there were three re-infected 
children in the 'index case treatment' group compared with one in the 'family 
unit treatment' group. The re-infection rate was 2.4% per patient per year in 
the 'index case treatment' group and 0.7% per patient per year in the 'family 
unit treatment' group (p = .31).
CONCLUSIONS: This study is the first to evaluate the effect of total family unit 
H. pylori eradication on pediatric re-infection rates and reports the longest 
period of re-infection follow-up in children. In childhood, re-infection with H. 
pylori is not significantly reduced by family unit H. pylori eradication.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1083-4389.2004.00240.x
PMID: 15270741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Am J Gastroenterol. 2008 Sep;103(9):2220-3. doi: 
10.1111/j.1572-0241.2008.01924.x. Epub 2008 Jun 28.

Ten-day sequential treatment for Helicobacter pylori eradication in clinical 
practice.

Sánchez-Delgado J(1), Calvet X, Bujanda L, Gisbert JP, Titó L, Castro M.

Author information:
(1)Hospital de Sabadell, Institut Universitari Parc Taulí, Departament de 
Medicina, UAB, Barcelona, Spain.

BACKGROUND: Cure rates of Helicobacter pylori infection with standard triple 
therapy are disappointingly low. A very effective, new sequential treatment 
schedule has recently been described. However, all studies published to date 
were performed in Italy; it is mandatory to confirm these results in other 
settings.
AIM: To assess the cure rate and the acceptability of a new sequential treatment 
regimen through a pilot study.
METHODS: A hundred and thirty-nine patients (60% men, mean age 49.6 +/- 15.7 yr) 
were recruited from six centers. H. pylori status was assessed by histology, 
urease test or urea breath test. Sequential regime consisted of a 10-day 
treatment including a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) b.d. plus amoxicillin 1 g b.d. 
for the first 5 days, followed by a PPI b.d. clarithromycin 500 mg b.d. and 
metronidazole 500 mg b.d for the next 5 days. Eradication was determined 8 wk 
after the end of treatment by urea breath test or histology. Eradication rates 
were calculated both per protocol and by intention-to-treat.
RESULTS: Eradication was achieved in 117 out of 129 patients who returned for a 
follow-up test. The intention-to-treat eradication rate was thus 84.2% (95%CI: 
77%-90%) and the per-protocol cure rate 90.7% (95%CI: 84%-95%). The treatment 
was well tolerated. Only 14 patients complained of mild side effects.
CONCLUSIONS: Sequential treatment seems highly effective for eradicating H. 
pylori.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1572-0241.2008.01924.x
PMID: 18564109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Allergol Immunopathol (Madr). 2002 Sep-Oct;30(5):255-8. doi: 
10.1016/s0301-0546(02)79133-7.

Efficacy of the eradication of Helicobacter pylori infection in patients with 
chronic urticaria. A placebo-controlled double blind study.

Gaig P(1), García-Ortega P, Enrique E, Papo M, Quer JC, Richard C.

Author information:
(1)Allergy Unit. Hospital Universitari Joan XXIII. Institut d'Estudis Avançats. 
Universitat Rovira i Virgili. Tarragona. Spain. pgaigj@hjxxiii.scs.es

Helicobacter pylori has been involved in the pathogenesis of chronic idiopathic 
urticaria (CIU) in patients suffering both CIU and H. pylori infection. We 
selected 49 patients with 13C urea breath test positive, long-lasting CIU and H. 
pylori infection; 20 remained symptomatic, had positive urease test or H. pylori 
histologic identification in gastric biopsy material and accepted to participate 
in a pacebo-controlled treatment trial. They were randomized for a 7-day, 
double-blind, placebo-controlled H. pylori eradication treatment with 
amoxicillin, clarithromycin and omeprazol or placebo. H. pylori eradication was 
assessed by a second 13C urea breath test six weeks after the end of treatment. 
We observed a significant improvement of more than 70 % of CIU; baseline 
clinical score was seen in 4 of the 9 (44 %) patients who eradicated H. pylori 
after active treatment and in 1 of the 7 (12,3 %) of those who did not (p = 
0.19). No clinical differences in CIU characteristics were found between 
patients with and without improvement. No serious adverse effects were observed 
in either treatment group. We conclude that the eradication of H. pylori may be 
useful for patients suffering long-lasting CIU and H. pylori infection, although 
theses results did not reach statistical significance probably owing to the 
strict conditions of the recruitment.

DOI: 10.1016/s0301-0546(02)79133-7
PMID: 12396958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Pediatr Infect Dis J. 1997 Feb;16(2 Suppl):S27-9. doi: 
10.1097/00006454-199702001-00008.

Pharmacoeconomic impact of factors affecting compliance with antibiotic regimens 
in the treatment of acute otitis media.

Wandstrat TL(1), Kaplan B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, Robert C. Byrd Health Sciences Center of 
West Virginia University-Charleston Division 25304, USA.

BACKGROUND: The total cost of treating otitis media in the United States alone 
is estimated at > 3.5 billion dollars annually. Therefore treatment approaches 
that reduce the cost of managing otitis media can have a large impact on overall 
health care costs.
METHODS: In this study cost effectiveness factors of various antimicrobial 
agents, such as adverse events and overall patient acceptance, were examined.
RESULTS: Decreased patient acceptance and higher incidence of adverse events had 
a negative impact on the cost of treatment. Amoxicillin/clavulanate, cefprozil, 
erythromycin/sulfisoxazole and trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole were found to be 
associated with decreased patient acceptance compared with cefixime. Cefixime 
also had the lowest number of adverse events of any of the drugs used. 
Amoxicillin had the lowest total cost for a single course of treatment, 
exclusive of costs of recurrence, which were examined in a previous study.
CONCLUSION: This study concluded that in cases in which several antibiotics may 
be clinically effective, comparative tolerability and patient acceptance data 
should be considered for selection of appropriate therapy. High compliance and 
lower morbidity can result in lower costs and better quality of life.

DOI: 10.1097/00006454-199702001-00008
PMID: 9041626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Nephron. 1998;79(1):55-60. doi: 10.1159/000044992.

Eradication and follow-up of Helicobacter pylori infection in hemodialysis 
patients.

Muñoz de Bustillo E(1), Sánchez Tomero JA, Sanz JC, Moreno JA, Jiménez I, 
López-Brea M, Pajares JM, Traver JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, Hospital Universitario de la Princesa, Madrid, 
Spain.

It is currently accepted that Helicobacter pylori (Hp) infection is crucial in 
the pathogenesis of peptic ulcer. Therefore, we developed a prospective study to 
assess the prevalence of Hp infection by the 13C Urea Breath Test (13C UBT) in 
52 hemodialysis patients, and we evaluated the efficacy of two consecutive 
eradication regimens in 23 positive patients with dyspepsia and/or on a 
transplantation list. The correlation between anti-Hp serology and 13C UBT 
results was also analyzed in 34 patients who were followed up during 18 months. 
The Hp prevalence by 13C UBT was 63.5% (33/52). The eradication rate after the 
first cycle of therapy (amoxicillin 500 mg/8 h and omeprazole 20 mg/12 h, 14 
days) was 60.8% (14/23). After the second cycle (clarithromycin 500 mg/12 h plus 
omeprazole 20 mg/12 h, 14 days), the eradication rate reached 82.6% (19/23). The 
serological procedure showed a good correlation with 13C UBT (about 80% 
sensitive and specific) when very restrictive diagnostic and eradication 
criteria were adopted. We conclude that an eradication rate higher than 80% can 
be reached after two consecutive cycles of dual therapy in hemodialysis 
patients. Anti-Hp serological tests must be cautiously interpreted in these 
patients.

DOI: 10.1159/000044992
PMID: 9609463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Am J Clin Dermatol. 2015 Dec;16(6):553-8. doi: 10.1007/s40257-015-0152-6.

Effects of Helicobacter pylori Eradication in Chronic Spontaneous Urticaria: 
Results from a Retrospective Cohort Study.

Curth HM(1), Dinter J(2), Nigemeier K(3), Kütting F(4), Hunzelmann N(5), Steffen 
HM(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University Hospital of 
Cologne, Kerpener Str. 62, 50937, Cologne, Germany. 
harald-morten.curth@uk-koeln.de.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University Hospital of 
Cologne, Kerpener Str. 62, 50937, Cologne, Germany. johanna.dinter@uk-koeln.de.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University Hospital of 
Cologne, Kerpener Str. 62, 50937, Cologne, Germany. k.nigemeier@googlemail.com.
(4)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University Hospital of 
Cologne, Kerpener Str. 62, 50937, Cologne, Germany. fabian.kuetting@uk-koeln.de.
(5)Department of Dermatology and Venerology, University Hospital of Cologne, 
Cologne, Germany. hunzelmannn@uni-koeln.de.
(6)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University Hospital of 
Cologne, Kerpener Str. 62, 50937, Cologne, Germany. 
hans-michael.steffen@uk-koeln.de.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Helicobacter pylori (Hp) infection has been 
hypothesised to play a major role in the pathogenesis of chronic spontaneous 
urticaria (CSU). Despite only weak evidence from Hp eradication studies, 
screening for Hp infection is still recommended in several CSU guidelines. The 
aim of this study was to investigate the effect of Hp eradication in combination 
with standard CSU treatment in Hp-positive compared with Hp-negative patients, 
applying the latest guidelines for both diseases.
METHODS: 138 consecutive patients with CSU were enrolled in this retrospective 
cohort study. All patients underwent gastroscopy and Hp status was determined by 
urease testing and histologic examination. Seventy-five patients were diagnosed 
as Hp negative and 47 patients fulfilled criteria for definite Hp infection, 45 
of whom received eradication therapy. Sixteen patients who received eradication 
therapy without an appropriate indication served as the medication control. All 
patients received symptomatic treatment with antihistamines and/or 
glucocorticoids regardless of Hp status. Partial response (PR) was defined as 
subjective amelioration of CSU symptoms; patients returning for further CSU 
treatment within 6 months were considered non-responders/relapsers (NRs).
RESULTS: The prevalence of Hp infection was comparable with Hp seroprevalence 
data reported for healthy western populations. Standard treatment of CSU led to 
relief of symptoms independent of Hp status. Hp eradication by standard triple 
therapy had no additional effect on PR (p = 0.32) or NR (p = 0.50).
CONCLUSIONS: Hp eradication has no discernible effect on CSU beyond that of 
standard CSU therapy. Therefore, Hp eradication should only be initiated in 
accordance with currently accepted indications of Hp treatment guidelines.

DOI: 10.1007/s40257-015-0152-6
PMID: 26334425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. J Colloid Interface Sci. 2019 Nov 1;555:304-314. doi: 
10.1016/j.jcis.2019.07.090. Epub 2019 Jul 31.

Fabrication of leaf extract mediated bismuth oxybromide/oxyiodide 
(BiOBr(x)I(1-x)) photocatalysts with tunable band gap and enhanced optical 
absorption for degradation of organic pollutants.

Yadav M(1), Garg S(2), Chandra A(3), Hernadi K(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Amity Institute of Applied Sciences, Amity 
University, Sector-125, Noida 201313, Uttar Pradesh, India; Amity Institute of 
Nanotechnology, Amity University, Sector-125, Noida 201313, Uttar Pradesh, 
India.
(2)Department of Chemistry, Amity Institute of Applied Sciences, Amity 
University, Sector-125, Noida 201313, Uttar Pradesh, India. Electronic address: 
sgarg2@amity.edu.
(3)Amity Institute of Pharmacy, Amity University, Sector-125, Noida 201313, 
Uttar Pradesh, India.
(4)Department of Applied and Environmental Chemistry, University of Szeged, 
Rerrich tér 1, H-6720 Szeged, Hungary.

The use of Azadirachta indica (A.I.) leaf extract to synthesize green 
photocatalysts for efficient separation of photogenerated charges has been a 
promising way to enhance the photocatalytic activity. Herein, we report the 
synthesis of green bismuth oxybromide/oxyiodide composites (G-BiOBrxI1-x) using 
A.I. leaf extract with effective size control, high specific surface area, and 
porosity. The A.I. leaf extract also acted as an excellent sensitizer that 
boosted the optical window of the G-BiOBrxI1-x photocatalysts. The as-prepared 
G-BiOBrxI1-x photocatalysts possessed three-dimensional (3-D) nanoplates like 
structure with successive modulation of the band gaps from 2.28 eV to 1.98 eV by 
varying the bromine/iodine (Br/I) ratio. Furthermore, the photocatalytic 
activity of the G-BiOBrxI1-x samples was measured and compared with the bismuth 
oxybromide/oxyiodide composite (C-BiOBr0.5I0.5) synthesized via conventional 
hydrolysis route (without the leaf extract). The G-BiOBrxI1-x photocatalysts 
degraded higher percentage of methyl orange (MO) and amoxicillin (AMX) than 
C-BiOBr0.5I0.5 under visible light irradiation. The superior photocatalytic 
efficiency was attributed to the multiple heterojunctions developed between 
BiOBr, BiOI, and electron-accepting π-conjugated system offered by leaf extract 
constituents, thereby facilitating the charge transfer process and effective 
separation of photogenerated charges.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcis.2019.07.090
PMID: 31394317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Scand J Gastroenterol. 2000 Sep;35(9):929-34. doi: 10.1080/003655200750022977.

Cure of Helicobacter pylori infection after failed primary treatment: one-center 
results from 120 patients.

Seppälä K(1), Kosunen TU, Nuutinen H, Sipponen P, Rautelin H, Sarna S, Hyvärinen 
H, Färkkilä M, Miettinen TA.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Medicine, Helsinki University Central Hospital, University of 
Helsinki, Finland.

BACKGROUND: Treatment with a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) and antimicrobials 
cures Helicobacter pylori infection in about 90% of patients. This is a 
retrospective overview of our studies aiming to cure the infection in all 
compliant patients with failed initial therapy.
METHODS: We retreated 120 (19% of 644) H. pylori-infected patients whose initial 
therapy had failed. The retreatments included (i) triple therapy (TT): colloidal 
bismuth subcitrate, metronidazole, amoxicillin (or tetracycline); (ii) quadruple 
therapy (QT): TT and a PPI; or (iii) high doses of both a PPI and clarithromycin 
combined with a further 1-3 individually selected antimicrobials. The 
eradication results were determined after 6-12 months.
RESULTS: The 1st retreatment was successful in 70 of 120 patients. The 2nd 
retreatment cured 25 of the remaining 42 patients, the 3rd 13 of 17, and the 4th 
the last 4 patients. The cumulative eradication rate (ITT) was 93% (95% CI: 
88.9%-97.9%; 8 patients withdrew after a failed 1st retreatment) and the rate 
was 100% in the remaining 112 patients who accepted several retreatments. The 
1st retreatment with TT cured 23% (95% CI: 12%-34%) of 57 patients and QT 85% 
(95% CI: 74%-96%) of 41 patients who had initially undergone a failed 
metronidazole-based treatment. All retreatments were well tolerated.
CONCLUSIONS: In this study, high doses of a PPI and clarithromycin combined with 
1-3 antimicrobials according to susceptibility data proved to be the best drug 
combination in the cure of H. pylori infection after failed primary treatment. 
Giving imidazole- and bismuth-based QT (without clarithromycin) as the 
first-line treatment of H. pylori infection ensures that the number of failures 
remains low.

DOI: 10.1080/003655200750022977
PMID: 11063151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. J Endod. 2013 Oct;39(10):1291-5. doi: 10.1016/j.joen.2013.06.019. Epub 2013 Aug 
27.

Is pulp regeneration necessary for root maturation?

Nosrat A(1), Li KL, Vir K, Hicks ML, Fouad AF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endodontics, Prosthodontics and Operative Dentistry, School of 
Dentistry, University of Maryland, Baltimore, Maryland.

INTRODUCTION: True regeneration of the dental pulp-dentin complex in immature 
teeth with necrotic pulps has not been shown histologically. It is not known to 
what extent this true tissue regeneration is necessary to achieve clinically 
acceptable outcomes.
METHODS: This case report describes the treatment of a patient with an immature 
maxillary right central incisor with a history of impact trauma and 
enamel-dentin crown fracture. A diagnosis of pulp necrosis with acute apical 
abscess was established. A regenerative endodontic protocol that used a paste 
containing Augmentin for 5 weeks as an intracanal medicament was used.
RESULTS: Follow-ups at 9, 12, 17, and 31 months revealed complete osseous 
healing of the periapical lesion and formation of the root apex, but without 
increase in root length. Clinically, the tooth was functional, asymptomatic, and 
nonresponsive to pulp vitality tests. The crown discolored over time. On 
reentering the root canal, no tissues were observed under magnification inside 
the root canal space. The root canal treatment was completed with mineral 
trioxide aggregate obturation.
CONCLUSIONS: Augmentin might be an acceptable choice for root canal disinfection 
in regenerative endodontic procedures. The protocol for regenerative endodontic 
treatment is not predictable for pulp-dentin regeneration. Formation of the root 
apex is possible without pulp regeneration.

Copyright © 2013 American Association of Endodontists. Published by Elsevier 
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.joen.2013.06.019
PMID: 24041394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Med Mycol. 2000;38 Suppl 1:237-41.

New aspects of some endemic mycoses.

Poncio Mendes R(1), Negroni R, Bonifaz A, Pappagianis D.

Author information:
(1)Facultade de Medicina de Botucatú, Sao Paulo, Brazil.

The treatment of mycetomas varies according to their etiological agents and the 
clinical state of the patient. For the treatment of eumycetomas, the azole 
derivatives are the drugs of choice, with itraconazole rendering better results 
than ketoconazole and presenting better tolerance. Actinomycetomas are treated 
according to different therapeutic schemes: dapsone plus 
sulfamethoxazol-trimethoprim (SMT), and streptomycin or amikacin or amoxicillin 
plus clavulanic acid. The first therapeutic scheme is very useful in the 
treatment of Nocardia mycetoma, while the association of amikacin plus SMT is 
the best treatment for those cases produced by Actinomadura madurae. 
Ciprofloxacin is a very useful drug for the treatment of actinomycotic mycetomas 
with bone lesions. Although there are several criteria for evaluating clinical 
outcome there is no accepted criterion of cure. During the 1990s, there was a 
remarkable increase in the incidence of coccidioidomycosis in California, USA. 
An almost ten-fold increase in the number of cases was registered during 1992 
and 1993 over the usual incidence. A gradual reduction in coccidioidomycosis 
cases was observed in the late 1990s. This particular coccidioidomycosis 
outbreak took place in areas of low endemicity, as well as in those of usual 
high endemicity. Among the factors believed to have influenced this phenomenon 
were a drought followed by abundant winter/spring rainfall, increased 
immigration of susceptible individuals, increase in excavation/construction work 
and a better diagnosis of the infection, particularly in the last part of the 
decade. The majority of patients presented the usual clinical manifestations of 
symptomatic primary infection but an unusual number of cases with acute 
respiratory failure were observed.

PMID: 11204151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Medicine (Baltimore). 2018 Nov;97(46):e13245. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000013245.

Modified quadruple therapy versus bismuth-containing quadruple therapy in 
first-line treatment of Helicobacter pylori infection in Korea; rationale and 
design of an open-label, multicenter, randomized controlled trial.

Lim H(1), Bang CS(1)(2), Shin WG(1), Choi JH(2), Soh JS(1), Kang HS(1), Yang 
YJ(1)(2), Hong JT(1), Shin SP(1), Suk KT(1), Lee JJ(2)(3), Baik GH(1), Kim 
DJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine.
(2)Institute of New Frontier Research.
(3)Department of Anesthesiology and Pain Medicine, Hallym University College of 
Medicine, Chuncheon, Korea.

BACKGROUND: Clarithromycin-containing triple regimen for eradication of 
Helicobacter pylori is no longer acceptable in Korea due to high clarithromycin 
resistance. Concomitant therapy or bismuth-containing quadruple therapy is 
recommended as an alternative regimen. A recent study in Korea has shown that 
modified quadruple therapy has comparable efficacy and safety to concomitant 
therapy as a first-line regimen. However, there has been no comparative study of 
modified quadruple therapy with bismuth-containing quadruple therapy. The aim of 
this study is to compare the efficacy and safety of modified quadruple therapy 
with those of bismuth-containing quadruple therapy as a first-line regimen and 
to present the phenotypic and genotypic antibiotic resistance profile of H 
pylori.
METHODS: This study is an open-label, multicenter, randomized controlled trial. 
We are recruiting subjects endoscopically diagnosed with H pylori infection from 
2 hospitals in Korea. Subjects will be randomly allocated either to modified 
quadruple therapy (proton-pump inhibitor bid, amoxicillin 1 g bid, metronidazole 
500 mg tid, bismuth subcitrate 300 mg qid daily) or bismuth-containing quadruple 
therapy (proton-pump inhibitor bid, tetracycline 500 mg qid, metronidazole 
500 mg tid, bismuth subcitrate 300 mg qid daily) for 14 days. The rate of 
eradication success and adverse events will be checked at least 4 weeks after 
the treatment. Antibiotic resistance will be established using both a bacterial 
culture with agar dilutions and DNA sequencing of the clarithromycin resistance 
point mutations in the 23S rRNA gene of H pylori.
CONCLUSION: The results of this study will provide solid evidence for 
determining the optimal treatment regimen for first-line H pylori eradication in 
Korea.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000013245
PMCID: PMC6257664
PMID: 30431605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
disclose.


392. J Clin Pharm Ther. 1994 Oct;19(5):313-5. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2710.1994.tb00818.x.

Stability of amoxycillin and potassium clavulanate in co-amoxiclav oral 
suspension.

Mehta AC(1), Hart-Davies S, Payne J, Lacey RW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, General Infirmary, Leeds, U.K.

A study was carried out using high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) to 
determine the chemical stability of amoxycillin and potassium clavulanate in 
250/62 co-amoxyclav oral suspension (Augmentin), stored at room temperature (RT, 
20 degrees C) and 8 degrees C over a period of 11 days. The suspension was 
judged to be acceptable if its components maintained at least 90% of their label 
concentrations. During the test period, the amoxycillin component was found to 
be more stable than the clavulanate. Amoxycillin was stable for 7 days at both 
temperatures. Potassium clavulanate maintained at least 90% of its initial 
concentration for 7 days at 8 degrees C but showed more than 40% degradation in 
the same time period at RT. For potassium clavulate the shelf-life, or time 
taken for the original concentration to drop to 90% of its value (t90) at RT was 
found to be 2 days.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2710.1994.tb00818.x
PMID: 7806602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med. 2000 Mar;154(3):267-70. doi: 
10.1001/archpedi.154.3.267.

Palatability of oral antibiotics among children in an urban primary care center.

Angelilli ML(1), Toscani M, Matsui DM, Rieder MJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Pediatrics, Children's Hospital of Michigan, Wayne State 
University, Detroit 48201, USA. mangeli@med.wayne.edu

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the palatability of antimicrobial agents effective 
against beta-lactamase-producing bacteria in American children.
DESIGN: In a taste test of 4 antimicrobial agents, azithromycin (cherry 
flavored), cefprozil (bubble gum flavored), cefixime (strawberry flavored), and 
amoxicillin-clavulanic acid (banana flavored) were compared.
SETTING: An urban inner-city primary care clinic.
SUBJECTS: A volunteer sample of 30 healthy children (aged 5-8 years).
INTERVENTION: Palatability was determined using a single-blind taste test of 4 
flavored antimicrobial agents. The 4 antimicrobial agents used were 
azithromycin, cefprozil, cefixime, and amoxicillin-clavulanic acid.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: After each antimicrobial test dose, subjects rated the 
taste on a 10-cm visual analog scale incorporating a facial hedonic scale. 
Preference assessments for the best-tasting and worst-tasting agent were also 
conducted.
RESULTS: Of the 20 children who expressed a preference, significantly more 
children (9 [45%], P<.05) selected the cefixime preparation as the best-tasting 
formulation compared with the other preparations. The cefixime preparation was 
also significantly the least likely to be selected as the worst-tasting 
preparation (2 [10%], P<.05). There were no significant differences between the 
other 3 preparations with respect to being selected as either the best or worst 
tasting. The mean (+/- SD) visual analog scale score for cefixime was highest 
(8.53 [2.49]) compared with the scores for azithromycin (6.78 [3.45]), cefprozil 
(6.26 [4.04]), and amoxicillin-clavulanic acid (6.24 [4.01]).
CONCLUSION: The cefixime preparation was most commonly rated as best tasting by 
children.

DOI: 10.1001/archpedi.154.3.267
PMID: 10710025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Helicobacter. 2019 Jun;24(3):e12584. doi: 10.1111/hel.12584. Epub 2019 Apr 16.

Systematic review: Would susceptibility-guided treatment achieve acceptable cure 
rates for second-line Helicobacter pylori therapy as currently practiced?

Baylina M(1)(2), Muñoz N(1)(2), Sánchez-Delgado J(2)(3), López-Góngora S(1)(2), 
Calvet X(2)(3), Puig I(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Internal Medicine Departament, Parc Taulí University Sanitary Corporation, 
Sabadell, Spain.
(2)Department of Medicine, Autonomous University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Digestive Diseases Unit, Parc Taulí University Sanitary Corporation, 
Sabadell, Spain.
(4)Althaia University Assistance Network of Manresa, Barcelona, Spain.
(5)International University of Catalonia, Barcelona, Spain.

BACKGROUND: Susceptibility-guided treatment has been proposed as a way to 
improve Helicobacter pylori eradication rates. Evidence on its efficacy for 
rescue therapy is very scarce. The aim of this study was to indirectly assess 
the applicability and effectiveness of susceptibility-guided treatment by 
evaluating (a) the rate of acceptance of endoscopy, (b) its success in detecting 
resistances, and (c) infection cure rates in patients harboring strains found to 
be susceptible to the antibiotics administered in clinical trials in which the 
efficacy of second-line treatments was reported.
METHODS: A systematic review of studies evaluating second-line H pylori 
treatment was carried out in multiple databases. Studies reporting antibiotic 
susceptibility evaluation and/or cure rates in patients harboring sensitive and 
resistant strains were selected. Data were extracted in duplicate.
RESULTS: The systematic review identified 36 eligible studies. Acceptance was 
evaluated in only one study of 60 patients, of whom only 38 agreed to endoscopy. 
Among the 2890 patients who received endoscopy and culture, resistances were 
finally determined in 86.5%. Cure rate was 72.5% in the 113 patients harboring a 
clarithromycin-susceptible strain after previous clarithromycin treatment, 93.5% 
in the 765 patients harboring a metronidazole-susceptible strain, and 83.8% in 
the 192 patients harboring a levofloxacin-susceptible strain. No studies with 
repeated administration of levofloxacin or metronidazole were found.
CONCLUSION: Even if the culture shows a clarithromycin-sensitive strain, 
repeating clarithromycin after a first failure should be discouraged. 
Susceptibility-guided treatment alone did not achieve adequate cure rates for 
rescue therapies. Additional measures are needed to design rescue treatments 
that consistently achieve excellent cure rates.

© 2019 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/hel.12584
PMID: 30990575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. J Antimicrob Chemother. 2008 Jun;61(6):1315-8. doi: 10.1093/jac/dkn108. Epub 
2008 Mar 19.

High rate of resistance to locally used antibiotics among enteric bacteria from 
children in Northern Ghana.

Djie-Maletz A(1), Reither K, Danour S, Anyidoho L, Saad E, Danikuu F, Ziniel P, 
Weitzel T, Wagner J, Bienzle U, Stark K, Seidu-Korkor A, Mockenhaupt FP, 
Ignatius R.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Microbiology and Hygiene, Charité-University Medicine Berlin, 
Berlin, Germany.

OBJECTIVES: Information on antimicrobial susceptibility of bacterial pathogens 
is scarce in resource-poor settings. We determined the susceptibility of 
bacterial enteric pathogens and faecal Escherichia coli isolates obtained from 
children in urban Tamale, Northern Ghana, to antibiotics widely used in the that 
area [ampicillin or amoxicillin, trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (SXT) and 
chloramphenicol] and to alternative drugs.
METHODS: Five Shigella spp., 6 Salmonella spp. and 318 E. coli were isolated 
from stool specimens obtained from 367 children with or without acute diarrhoea. 
Isolates were differentiated using standard laboratory procedures and tested 
using a breakpoint microbroth dilution method for their susceptibility to 18 
antimicrobials and by disc diffusion for their susceptibility to 
chloramphenicol.
RESULTS: Although the salmonellae showed an acceptable resistance pattern, E. 
coli isolates and the closely related shigellae were highly resistant. About 91% 
and 81% of E. coli isolates from patients or controls, respectively, were 
resistant to ampicillin (MICs > or = 8 mg/L), 88% and 76% to 
trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (MICs > or = 80/4 mg/L) and 46% and 41% to 
chloramphenicol (inhibition zones < or = 12 mm). Resistance to beta-lactam 
antibiotics or chloramphenicol was observed more frequently among isolates 
obtained from infants when compared with older children (1-4 years of age).
CONCLUSIONS: Enteric bacteria from children in urban Northern Ghana are highly 
resistant to antibiotics used in that area. Therefore, new antibiotics should be 
introduced for the treatment of infections caused by these bacteria. 
Additionally, the establishment of a surveillance of the prevalence of the main 
bacterial infectious agents and their antimicrobial resistance is desirable.

DOI: 10.1093/jac/dkn108
PMID: 18356156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. BMC Fam Pract. 2010 Jan 26;11:6. doi: 10.1186/1471-2296-11-6.

A survey of the management of urinary tract infection in children in primary 
care and comparison with the NICE guidelines.

Kennedy KM(1), Glynn LG, Dineen B.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Practice, National University of Ireland, Galway, 
Ireland. kieran.m.kennedy@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to establish current practices amongst 
general practitioners in the West of Ireland with regard to the investigation, 
diagnosis and management of urinary tract infection (UTI) in children and to 
evaluate these practices against recently published guidelines from the National 
Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE).
METHODS: A postal survey was performed using a questionnaire that included short 
clinical scenarios. All general practices in a single health region were sent a 
questionnaire, cover letter and SAE. Systematic postal and telephone contact was 
made with non-responders. The data was analysed using SPSS version 15.
RESULTS: Sixty-nine general practitioners were included in the study and 50 
(72%) responded to the questionnaire. All respondents agreed that it is 
important to consider diagnosis of UTI in all children with unexplained fever. 
Doctors accurately identified relevant risk factors for UTI in the majority 
(87%) of cases. In collecting urine samples from a one year old child, 80% of 
respondents recommended the use of a urine collection bag and the remaining 20% 
recommended collection of a clean catch sample. Respondents differed greatly in 
their practice with regard to detailed investigation and specialist referral 
after a first episode of UTI. Co-amoxiclav was the most frequently used 
antibiotic for the treatment of cystitis, with most doctors prescribing a five 
day course.
CONCLUSIONS: In general, this study reveals a high level of clinical knowledge 
amongst doctors treating children with UTI in primary care in the catchment area 
of County Mayo. However, it also demonstrates wide variation in practice with 
regard to detailed investigation and specialist referral. The common practice of 
prescribing long courses of antibiotics when treating lower urinary tract 
infection is at variance with NICE's recommendation of a three day course of 
antibiotics for cystitis in children over three months of age when there are no 
atypical features.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2296-11-6
PMCID: PMC2823660
PMID: 20102638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect Dis. 2013 Dec;32(12):1545-56. doi: 
10.1007/s10096-013-1909-6. Epub 2013 Jul 4.

Adequacy of an evidence-based treatment guideline for complicated urinary tract 
infections in the Netherlands and the effectiveness of guideline adherence.

Spoorenberg V(1), Prins JM, Stobberingh EE, Hulscher ME, Geerlings SE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Infectious Diseases, Centre for 
Infection and Immunity Amsterdam (CINIMA), Academic Medical Centre, P.O. Box 
22660, 1100 DD, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, v.spoorenberg@amc.nl.

Guideline recommendations on empirical antibiotic treatment are based on the 
literature, expert opinion, expected pathogens and resistance data, but their 
adequacy in the real-life setting is often unknown. We investigated the adequacy 
of the Dutch evidence-based guideline-recommended treatment options for patients 
with complicated urinary tract infections (UTIs) 2 years after guideline 
publication and, additionally, the adequacy of actually prescribed empirical 
therapy for patients treated with guideline-adherent versus 
non-guideline-adherent therapy. A retrospective, observational multicentre study 
in the Netherlands included 810 patients with a complicated UTI without special 
conditions and 174 with a urinary catheter. The susceptibility patterns of 
cultured uropathogens were compared with guideline-recommended treatment 
options, which included specific recommendations for patients with a catheter, 
and with actually prescribed empirical therapy. We considered inadequate 
coverage rates below 10% as acceptable. Of the recommended regimens for patients 
with a UTI without other conditions, only the guideline-recommended combination 
of amoxicillin-gentamicin was acceptable (inadequate coverage rate 6%). For 
patients with a catheter, inadequate coverage rates of recommended regimens 
ranged from 3 to 24%. In patients with a UTI without other conditions, actually 
prescribed guideline-adherent therapy resulted in less broad-spectrum but not in 
less adequate therapy; in patients with a catheter, actually prescribed 
guideline-adherent therapy resulted in a higher coverage rate than those 
prescribed non-guideline-adherent therapy. Due to the continuously changing 
resistance rates and differences between the epidemiologies of uropathogens 
assumed in the guideline and those in real life, regular real-life assessments 
of recommended treatment options are necessary. Guideline adherence seems to be 
effective for increasing coverage rates without prescribing unnecessarily broad 
regimens.

DOI: 10.1007/s10096-013-1909-6
PMID: 24213913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Drug Test Anal. 2012 Dec;4(12):1014-27. doi: 10.1002/dta.1345. Epub 2012 May 21.

Flexibility and applicability of β-expectation tolerance interval approach to 
assess the fitness of purpose of pharmaceutical analytical methods.

Bouabidi A(1), Talbi M, Bourichi H, Bouklouze A, El Karbane M, Boulanger B, Brik 
Y, Hubert P, Rozet E.

Author information:
(1)Analytical Chemistry Laboratory, CIRM, Institute of Pharmacy, University of 
Liège, Belgium.

An innovative versatile strategy using Total Error has been proposed to decide 
about the method's validity that controls the risk of accepting an unsuitable 
assay together with the ability to predict the reliability of future results. 
This strategy is based on the simultaneous combination of systematic (bias) and 
random (imprecision) error of analytical methods. Using validation standards, 
both types of error are combined through the use of a prediction interval or 
β-expectation tolerance interval. Finally, an accuracy profile is built by 
connecting, on one hand all the upper tolerance limits, and on the other hand 
all the lower tolerance limits. This profile combined with pre-specified 
acceptance limits allows the evaluation of the validity of any quantitative 
analytical method and thus their fitness for their intended purpose. In this 
work, the approach of accuracy profile was evaluated on several types of 
analytical methods encountered in the pharmaceutical industrial field and also 
covering different pharmaceutical matrices. The four studied examples depicted 
the flexibility and applicability of this approach for different matrices 
ranging from tablets to syrups, different techniques such as liquid 
chromatography, or UV spectrophotometry, and for different categories of assays 
commonly encountered in the pharmaceutical industry i.e. content assays, 
dissolution assays, and quantitative impurity assays. The accuracy profile 
approach assesses the fitness of purpose of these methods for their future 
routine application. It also allows the selection of the most suitable 
calibration curve, the adequate evaluation of a potential matrix effect and 
propose efficient solution and the correct definition of the limits of 
quantification of the studied analytical procedures.

Copyright © 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/dta.1345
PMID: 22615163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Med Princ Pract. 2017;26(6):523-529. doi: 10.1159/000484930. Epub 2017 Nov 3.

Comparison of Helicobacter pylori Eradication Rates of 2-Week 
Levofloxacin-Containing Triple Therapy, Levofloxacin-Containing Bismuth 
Quadruple Therapy, and Standard Bismuth Quadruple Therapy as a First-Line 
Regimen.

Kahramanoğlu Aksoy E, Pirinçci Sapmaz F, Göktaş Z, Uzman M, Nazlıgül Y.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to compare the efficacy and safety of 
2-week levofloxacin-containing triple therapy, levofloxacin-containing bismuth 
quadruple therapy, and standard bismuth-containing quadruple therapy as a 
first-line regimen for the eradication of Helicobacter pylori.
METHODS: A total of 329 patients with H. pylori infection were randomly divided 
into 3 groups to receive one of the following regimens: (a) 
levofloxacin-containing bismuth quadruple therapy, RBAL (rabeprazole 20 mg, 
b.i.d., bismuth subsalicylate 562 mg, b.i.d., amoxicillin 1 g, b.i.d, 
levofloxacin 500 mg, once daily), (b) standard bismuth quadruple therapy, RBMT 
(rabeprazole 20 mg, b.i.d, subsalicylate 562 mg, b.i.d., metronidazole 500 mg, 
t.i.d, tetracycline 500 mg, q.i.d), or (c) levofloxacin-containing triple 
therapy, RAL (rabeprazole 20 mg, b.i.d., amoxicillin 1 g, b.i.d, levofloxacin 
500 mg, once daily). The primary outcome was the eradication rate in the 
intention-to-treat (ITT) and per protocol (PP) analysis.
RESULTS: The eradication rates of the above 3 groups using ITT analysis were 
RBAL 83.8%, RBMT 88.3%, and RAL 74.8% compared with 91.2, 92.5, and 79.2%, 
respectively, using PP analysis. The eradication rate using RBMT was 
significantly higher than that of RAL (p = 0.029 in ITT analysis and p = 0.017 
in PP analysis). Several side effects occurred in 156 patients (54.1%) in the 
RBAL group, 215 (52.3%) in the RBMT group, and 56 (26.2%) in the RAL group (p > 
0.05, RBAL vs. RBMT; p < 0.001, RBMT vs. RAL; p < 0.001, RBAL vs. RAL).
CONCLUSION: All bismuth-containing quadruple therapies had acceptable 
eradication rates, but levofloxacin-containing triple therapy was not as good as 
quadruple therapies. Hence, quadruple therapies should be considered the 
preferred first-line therapy for H. pylori infections.

© 2017 The Author(s) Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000484930
PMCID: PMC5848476
PMID: 29131124 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. J Dent Res Dent Clin Dent Prospects. 2009 Fall;3(4):136-40. doi: 
10.5681/joddd.2009.033. Epub 2009 Dec 15.

Microbial contamination of the white coats of dental staff in the clinical 
setting.

Priya H(1), Acharya S, Bhat M, Ballal M.

Author information:
(1)Assistant Professor, Department of Community Dentistry, Manipal College of 
Dental Sciences, Mangalore, India.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Although wearing a white coat is an accepted part of 
medical and dental practice, it is a potential source of cross-infection. The 
objective of this study was to determine the level and type of microbial 
contamination present on the white coats of dental interns, graduate students 
and faculty in a dental clinic.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Questionnaire and cross-sectional survey of the bacterial 
contamination of white coats in two predetermined areas (chest and pocket) on 
the white coats were done in a rural dental care center. Paired sample t-test 
and chi-square test were used for Statistical analysis.
RESULTS: 60.8% of the participants reported washing their white coats once a 
week. Grading by the examiner revealed 15.7% dirty white coats. Also, 82.5% of 
the interns showed bacterial contamination of their white coats compared to 
74.7% graduate students and 75% faculty members irrespective of the area 
examined. However, chest area was consistently a more bacterio-logically 
contaminated site as compared to the pocket area. Antibiotic sensitivity testing 
revealed resistant varieties of micro-organisms against Amoxicillin (60%), 
Erythromycin (42.5%) and Cotrimoxazole (35.2%).
CONCLUSION: The white coats seem to be a potential source of cross-infection in 
the dental setting. The bacterial contamina-tion carried by white coats, as 
demonstrated in this study, supports the ban on white coats from non-clinical 
areas.

DOI: 10.5681/joddd.2009.033
PMCID: PMC3463095
PMID: 23230502


401. Chest. 2002 Sep;122(3):920-9. doi: 10.1378/chest.122.3.920.

The community-acquired pneumonia symptom questionnaire: a new, patient-based 
outcome measure to evaluate symptoms in patients with community-acquired 
pneumonia.

Lamping DL(1), Schroter S, Marquis P, Marrel A, Duprat-Lomon I, Sagnier PP.

Author information:
(1)Health Services Research Unit, Department of Public Health and Policy, London 
School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, UK. donna.lamping@lshtm.ac.uk

STUDY OBJECTIVE: s: To develop and validate a patient-based outcome measure to 
evaluate symptoms in patients with community-acquired pneumonia (CAP).
DESIGN: A psychometric study within an international, prospective, randomized, 
double-blind study. The CAP-symptom questionnaire (CAP-Sym) is a new, 18-item, 
patient-reported outcome measure that evaluates the bothersomeness of 
CAP-related symptoms during the past 24 h using a 6-point Likert scale. We used 
"gold standard" psychometric methods to comprehensively evaluate the 
acceptability, reliability, validity, and responsiveness of the CAP-Sym.
SETTING: Sixty-four centers in 13 countries (France, Germany, Hungary, Israel, 
Italy, Norway, Poland, Portugal, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, 
United Kingdom).
PATIENTS: Five hundred fifty-six patients with CAP, recruited from outpatient 
clinics, general practice, and hospital centers.
INTERVENTIONS: Randomization 1:1 to moxifloxacin (400 mg once daily), oral or 
standard oral treatment (amoxicillin, 1 g tid, or clarithromycin, 500 mg bid), 
alone or in combination, for up to 14 days.
RESULTS: Standard psychometric tests confirmed the acceptability (item 
nonresponse, item-endorsement frequencies, item/scale floor and ceiling 
effects), reliability (internal consistency, item-total and inter-item 
correlations, test-retest reliability), validity (content, construct, 
convergent, discriminant, known groups), and responsiveness of the CAP-Sym.
CONCLUSIONS: The CAP-Sym is a practical and scientifically sound patient-based 
outcome measure of CAP-related symptoms that has been developed using "gold 
standard" methods. As the only fully validated measure of symptoms in patients 
with CAP, which is quick and easy to administer and is more responsive than the 
generic Medical Outcomes Study 36-Item Short-Form Health Survey, the CAP-Sym 
provides a practical and rigorous method for improving the evaluation of 
outcomes in clinical trials and audit.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.122.3.920
PMID: 12226033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Indian J Med Sci. 2009 Oct;63(10):464-7.

False-positive widal in melioidosis.

Valsalan R(1), Shubha S, Mukhopadhyay C, Saravu K, Maneesh M, Shastry BA, Rau 
NR, Pandit VR, Gonsalves H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Kasturba Medical College, Manipal, India. 
drrohithv@gmail.com

Enteric fever is endemic in this part of the world, and Widal test is one of the 
time-honored laboratory tests that are being used for years to diagnose the 
disease. On the other hand, melioidosis is a newly emerging disease from this 
region, which is most often misdiagnosed or underdiagnosed by clinicians. It is 
well accepted that false-positive Widal reactions following certain non-typhoid 
Salmonella infections may occur commonly. Three cases of high titers of Widal 
test are described, where melioidosis was the actual diagnosis in every occasion 
and was never suspected until diagnosed microbiologically. All the patients had 
shown a partial response to ceftriaxone. Blood and pus cultures grew 
Burkholderia pseudomallei, whereas Salmonella typhi was not isolated from blood 
in any patient. With appropriate antibiotics, the patients showed clinical and 
microbiological improvement with lowering of Widal titers. These 3 cases show 
that high Widal titer in any patient may mislead the diagnosis of melioidosis, 
and further laboratory workup should always be done to rule out melioidosis, 
especially in cases with nonresponsiveness to treatment.

PMID: 19901486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Talanta. 2013 Jan 30;104:17-21. doi: 10.1016/j.talanta.2012.11.022. Epub 2012 
Nov 17.

On-line solid phase extraction using organic-inorganic hybrid monolithic columns 
for the determination of trace β-lactam antibiotics in milk and water samples.

Zhang Y(1), Liu H, Zhang X, Lei H, Bai L, Yang G.

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy, Hebei University, Hebei Province Key Laboratory of 
Pharmaceutical Quality Control, Baoding 071002, China.

A rapid and simple method with on-line solid phase extraction (SPE) has been 
developed for the simultaneous determination of beta-lactam antibiotics (BLAs) 
(amoxicillin, cephradine, and cefazolin sodium) in aquatic environment and milk. 
The epoxy-based organic-inorganic hybrid monolithic column was used as SPE 
sorbent to simultaneously monitor three analytes. The morphology of monolithic 
column and pressure drop across the columns were characterized. Excellent 
permeability and high selectivity were obtained. The linear range of the 
standard curve was from 2.0 to 500 ng/mL (r(2)≥0.999). Precision for inter- and 
intra-day assay showed acceptable results for quantitative assay with relative 
standard deviation (RSD) less than 11%. The accuracy and recovery were found to 
be within the range of 93-103% and 83-105%. The results indicated that the 
prepared monolithic column could provide excellent reproducibility and implied 
that the prepared monolith was feasible to be used as an on-line SPE sorbent 
material.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.talanta.2012.11.022
PMID: 23597882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. An Esp Pediatr. 1998 Oct;49(4):359-63.

[Adverse drug reactions in area I in Asturias].

[Article in Spanish]

Loza Cortina C(1).

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Pediatría, Hospital Comarcal de Jarrio, Coaña, Asturias.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to know the incidence of adverse drug 
reactions in a group of children sent to our office by their pediatrician under 
the suspicion of having suffered a drug reaction.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Ninety-eight children were retrospectively studied. Family 
background, clinical picture, drugs involved, time elapsing between the onset of 
symptoms and the date of the study, association to other allergic conditions and 
diagnostic methods used "in vivo" and "in vitro" were evaluated.
RESULTS: Mean age of the patients was 4 years with 53.5% being female and 46.5% 
male. Positive drug allergy in the family background was found in 22%. The 
clinical picture showed urticaria and angioedema in 36%, morbiliform eruption in 
31%, urticaria in 20%, only angioedema in 9% and other symptoms in 4%. Drugs 
involved included betalactams (78%), macrolides (17.5%) and others (less than 
9%). The mean time elapsed between the onset of symptoms and the date of study 
was 2 years. There was association to other allergic conditions in 18% (50% in 
the cases in which the drug allergy was confirmed). RAST to penicillin G and V, 
amoxicillin and ampicillin was done in 28 cases (betalactams), being negative in 
all of them. Skin tests were carried out in 21 cases (betalactams), being 
positive in 19% (66% among the confirmed cases). In all but two cases a 
controlled provocation test was carried out, being positive only in 8.
CONCLUSIONS: 1) The presence of adverse drug reactions is confirmed in only 9% 
of the cases. 2) Confirmation of the clinical history and the provocation test 
as the most reliable diagnostic methods currently available. 3) Acceptable 
sensitivity of the skin tests in the case of betalactams. 4) Null sensitivity of 
the RAST in the case of betalactams.

PMID: 9859548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 1999 Jul;13(7):869-73. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-2036.1999.00574.x.

Comparison of two 3-day Helicobacter pylori eradication regimens with a standard 
1-week regimen.

Grimley CE(1), Penny A, O'sullivan M, Shebani M, Lismore JR, Cross R, Illing RC, 
Loft DE, Nwokolo CU.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Walsgrave Hospital, Coventry, UK.

BACKGROUND: The duration of Helicobacter pylori eradication regimens has 
decreased to 1 week with cure rates of over 90%. This can be attributed to the 
use of triple drug regimens including potent inhibitors of gastric acid 
secretion and clarithromycin. There is no theoretical reason why shorter 
regimens should not be possible.
AIM: To compare two 3-day, low-dose, twice daily regimens with 1 week of 
omeprazole 20 mg b.d., clarithromycin 250 mg b.d., and metronidazole 400 mg b.d. 
(OCM) METHODS: Outpatients referred for gastroscopy were screened by biopsy 
urease test. H. pylori-positive patients were randomized to receive either 
lansoprazole 30 mg b.d., tri-potassium dicitrato bismuthate one tablet b.d., 
clarithromycin 250 mg b.d., and amoxycillin 1 g b.d. for 3 days (LTdbCA), or 
ranitidine bismuth citrate 400 mg b.d., clarithromycin 250 mg b.d. and 
amoxycillin 1 g b.d. for 3 days (RbcCA) or omeprazole 20 mg b.d., clarithromycin 
250 mg b.d. and metronidazole 400 mg b.d. for 1 week (OCM). They were not 
pre-treated with a gastric acid inhibitor. After 8 weeks, H. pylori status was 
assessed by 13C urea breath test.
RESULTS: 974 out of 1114 patients referred for gastroscopy were screened by 
biopsy urease test. 140 patients were not screened either because they were 
anticoagulated or for technical reasons. 334 patients were H. pylori-positive: 
154 were excluded mostly because of allergy to penicillin and personal reasons 
but 180 were randomized to treatment All regimens were well tolerated. For 
LTdbCA (n=60), RbcCA (n=59), and OCM (n=61) the H. pylori cure rates (95% CI) 
were 23% (12-34), 14% (5-23) and 87% (79-95), respectively, using 
intention-to-treat analysis and 25% (14-36), 15% (6-24) and 88% (80-96), 
respectively, if analysed per protocol. OCM was significantly superior to LTdbCA 
and RbcCA (P < 0.001) but there was no significant difference between regimens 
LTdbCA and RbcCA.
CONCLUSIONS: OCM is an extremely effective H. pylori eradication regimen. The 
3-day regimens tested both have poor cure rates. Pre-treatment with a proton 
pump inhibitor, higher doses or more frequent dosing may be necessary to 
increase the cure rate of short duration regimens. However, this could make them 
less acceptable than the H. pylori eradication regimens currently available.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2036.1999.00574.x
PMID: 10383520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. BMJ. 1988 Oct 8;297(6653):891-3. doi: 10.1136/bmj.297.6653.891.

Patients as a direct source of information on adverse drug reactions.

Mitchell AS(1), Henry DA, Sanson-Fisher R, O'Connell DL.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, University of Newcastle, Royal Newcastle Hospital, New 
South Wales, Australia.

To determine whether patients should participate directly in detecting adverse 
reactions to drugs their ability to provide written reports of symptoms 
experienced during treatment with amoxycillin or trimethoprim-sulphamethoxazole 
was investigated. When compared with telephone interviews forms on which 
patients reported events were reliable (the observed agreement with the same 
statements posed during telephone calls was 85%, kappa = 0.56) and valid 
(sensitivity = 54%, specificity = 94%). Patients were also supplied with forms 
that invited them to report adverse reactions, and their perceptions were 
compared with those of a panel of experts, who were informed of all clinical 
events that had been reported during the detailed telephone interviews. Patients 
were more conservative than the experts in attributing clinical events to drug 
treatment. The extent of agreement varied and was notably poor for skin and 
bowel complaints (kappa = 0.13 in each case). The performance of event report 
forms and reaction report forms as instruments of detection was compared in a 
hypothetical situation in which the experts' views represented the "truth" about 
adverse reactions to a new drug. Event reporting had a higher sensitivity than 
reaction reporting (42% v 24%) but a lower specificity (58% v 98%). National 
centres monitoring adverse drug reactions should probably resist pressure to 
accept reports of reactions directly from the public, but a system based on 
large scale reporting of events might be valuable in aiding the early detection 
of symptomatic reactions to new drugs.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.297.6653.891
PMCID: PMC1834468
PMID: 3140967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Helicobacter. 2024 Sep-Oct;29(5):e13143. doi: 10.1111/hel.13143.

Efficacy of Tegoprazan-Containing Sequential Eradication Treatment Compared to 
Esomeprazole-Containing Sequential Eradication of Helicobacter pylori in South 
Korea, a Region With High Antimicrobial Resistance: A Prospective, Randomized, 
Single Tertiary Center Study.

Lee JW(1), Kim N(2)(3)(4), Lee J(2), Jo SY(2), Lee DH(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Samsung Changwon Hospital, Sungkyunkwan 
University School of Medicine, Changwon, South Korea.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, 
Seongnam, South Korea.
(3)Research Center for Sex- and Gender-Specific Medicine, Seoul National 
University Bundang Hospital, Seongnam, South Korea.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine and Liver Research Institute, Seoul National 
University College of Medicine, Seoul, South Korea.

BACKGROUND: Treatment with potassium-competitive acid blockers has shown 
acceptable efficacy in Helicobacter pylori eradication. In regions like Korea, 
where the clarithromycin resistance rate is high, alternative combinations like 
non-bismuth quadruple therapies have shown favorable results. This study 
compared the outcomes of sequential eradication therapy with new 
potassium-competitive acid blocker tegoprazan and conventional 
esomeprazole-containing sequential therapy.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Patients with Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection 
were consecutively recruited. Patients were allocated to either an 
esomeprazole-containing sequential or a tegoprazan-containing sequential therapy 
group. Sequential therapy comprised esomeprazole (40 mg) or tegoprazan (50 mg) 
plus amoxicillin (1000 mg) twice daily for the initial 5 days, followed by 
esomeprazole (40 mg) or tegoprazan (50 mg) with clarithromycin (500 mg) and 
metronidazole (500 mg) twice daily for the remaining 5 days. Eradication rate, 
compliance, and adverse events were recorded.
RESULTS: A total of 406 patients with H. pylori infection were enrolled in the 
trial and analyzed per protocol. Eradication rate by intention-to-treat and 
per-protocol was 83.8% (95% confidence interval [CI]: 78.7-88.9) for 
esomeprazole-containing sequential therapy, and 87.1% (95% CI: 82.5-91.8) for 
tegoprazan-containing sequential therapy, with no statistical significance 
(p = 0.399). Additionally, there was no statistically significant difference in 
treatment compliance between the two groups. Nausea was more prevalent (23.3%, 
27/202) with sequential tegoprazans than with esomeprazole-containing sequential 
therapy (14.2%, 29/204; p = 0.022).
CONCLUSION: Tegoprazan-containing 10-day sequential eradication treatment 
demonstrated similar eradication efficacy compared to esomeprazole-containing 
treatment, even in regions with high antimicrobial resistance, such as Korea.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT06382493.

© 2024 The Author(s). Helicobacter published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/hel.13143
PMID: 39434634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Can J Gastroenterol. 2001 Apr;15(4):251-5. doi: 10.1155/2001/279596.

Update on the role of H pylori infection in gastrointestinal disorders.

Chaun H(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, 
Canada. hchaun@compuserve.com

Infection with Helicobacter pylori is accepted as the primary cause of peptic 
ulcer disease, and there is evidence to suggest its role in other 
gastrointestinal disorders. An estimated 20% to 40% of the Canadian population 
is infected with H pylori; however, clinically relevant disease is present in 
only approximately 10% to 20% of these individuals. Therefore, it is crucial to 
identify the diseases for which eradication of H pylori is beneficial to ensure 
that patients do not receive unnecessary treatment. In patients with ulcers 
induced by long term treatment with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, 
preliminary results suggest that eradication of H pylori may reduce the risk of 
peptic ulcer bleeding. Furthermore, a benefit has been observed for the 
eradication of H pylori before patients commence therapy with a nonsteroidal 
anti-inflammatory drug. An association between the presence of H pylori and 
specific dyspeptic symptoms has yet to be established; however, there may be a 
subset of patients with functional dyspepsia who benefit from the eradication of 
H pylori. The relationship between gastroesophageal reflux disorder and H pylori 
infection remains unclear. In Canada, the recommended therapy for the 
eradication of H pylori is seven days of twice-daily treatment with a proton 
pump inhibitor, clarithromycin, and amoxicillin or metronidazole. Although the 
proton pump inhibitors are treated as a class for use in these regimens, there 
is suggestion that a faster onset of action may lead to a higher rate of 
eradication.

DOI: 10.1155/2001/279596
PMID: 11331927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Sex Transm Dis. 1997 Mar;24(3):127-30. doi: 10.1097/00007435-199703000-00002.

Acceptability and compliance with daily injections of procaine penicillin in the 
outpatient treatment of syphilis-treponemal infection.

Crowe G(1), Theodore C, Forster GE, Goh BT.

Author information:
(1)Ambrose King Centre, Department of Genito-Urinary Medicine, Royal London 
Hospital, Whitechapel.

BACKGROUND: In the United Kingdom, it is recommended that syphilis should be 
treated with intramuscular daily procaine penicillin with or without oral 
probenecid for 8 to 21 days. However, it has been argued that this regimen would 
be unacceptable to patients in terms of daily attendance and volume of drug 
administered, resulting in poor compliance.
GOAL: To assess the acceptability of and compliance with daily procaine 
penicillin for 10 to 17 days in patients attending an East London Genito-Urinary 
Medicine Clinic with a diagnosis of syphilis-treponemal infection.
STUDY DESIGN: The notes of 210 consecutive patients attending with 
syphilis-treponemal infection who had been offered treatment with daily procaine 
penicillin, with or without oral probenecid for 10 to 17 days, were reviewed 
retrospectively.
RESULTS: Of 210 patients who were offered daily procaine penicillin, 42 (20%) 
declined and were given oral doxycycline, amoxicillin, or depot penicillin 
injections. Of 168 patients who accepted daily procaine penicillin, depending on 
the stage of infection, 90 (54%) had 1.8 g of daily procaine penicillin together 
with oral probenecid 500 mg every 6 hours for 17 days (high-dose regimen), 57 
(34%) had 0.6 g of daily procaine penicillin for 10 to 17 days (low-dose 
regimen), and 21 (12%) had mixed-dose regimens ranging from 0.5 to 2.4 g. Of the 
90 who had high-dose regimen, 76 (84%) complied with treatment compared with 50 
(88%) of 57 who had low-dose regimen. All 21 patients who had mixed-dose 
regimens complied fully.
CONCLUSIONS: Daily procaine penicillin is a well-accepted out-patient regimen 
with excellent compliance (88% overall) and minimal side effects. Because the 
high-dose regimen has been shown to achieve treponemicidal levels of penicillin 
in the cerebrospinal fluid, it is recommended for patients with neurosyphilis or 
those in whom neurosyphilis cannot be excluded. It also could be considered for 
patients with concomitant human immunodeficiency virus infection in view of the 
possible progression to neurosyphilis in those treated with depot penicillin.

DOI: 10.1097/00007435-199703000-00002
PMID: 9132978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Kansenshogaku Zasshi. 2006 May;80(3):203-11. doi: 
10.11150/kansenshogakuzasshi1970.80.203.

[Generalization of Helicobacter pylori eradication therapy and its future in 
Japan].

[Article in Japanese]

Takahashi S(1), Tokunaga K, Tanaka A.

Author information:
(1)The Third Department of Internal Medicine, Kyorin University School of 
Medicine.

After official acceptance of eradication therapy for Helicobacter pylori 
infected peptic ulcer disease in 2000, this treatment has been generalized as 
ulcer therapy in Japan. In 2003 the consensus statement of the Japanese Society 
for Helicobacter Research (JSHR) for Helicobacter pylori infection was 
presented. According to this statement MALT lymphoma was recommended to treat H. 
pylori infection because of the efficacy of its out come. Atrophic gastritis was 
also advised to treat H. pylori infection for the purpose of preventing gastric 
cancer development. The extra alimentary disease such as idiopathic 
thrombocytopenic purpura was still under evaluation. In diagnostic method the 
importance of drug susceptibility test is rising because of the increase of drug 
resistant H. pylori strain in Japan. The false positive case of urea breath 
test, the accuracy of new Japanese original serology tests and the stool antigen 
test are also under investigation. The standard regimen of H. pylori eradication 
therapy in Japan is proton pomp inhibitor (PPI) + amoxicilin (AMPC) + 
clarithromycin (CAM). The problem of this regimen is the decrease of eradication 
rate. The reason of this trend might be increase of CAM resistant strain. JSHR 
recommended a rescue regimen as PPI + AMPC + metronidazole for the patient whose 
first eradication therapy was unsuccessful result. The eradication of this 
second line regimen was reported as about 90%.

DOI: 10.11150/kansenshogakuzasshi1970.80.203
PMID: 16780126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Pediatrics. 2007 Aug;120(2):281-7. doi: 10.1542/peds.2006-3601.

Management of acute otitis media by primary care physicians: trends since the 
release of the 2004 American Academy of Pediatrics/American Academy of Family 
Physicians clinical practice guideline.

Vernacchio L(1), Vezina RM, Mitchell AA.

Author information:
(1)Slone Epidemiology Center, 1010 Commonwealth Ave, Boston, MA 02215, USA. 
lvernacchio@slone.bu.edu

OBJECTIVES: In 2004, the American Academy of Pediatrics and the American Academy 
of Family Physicians released a clinical practice guideline on the management of 
acute otitis media that included endorsement of an observation option for 
selected cases and recommendations of specific antibiotics. We sought to 
describe primary care physicians' current management of acute otitis media to 
compare it with the guideline's recommendations and describe trends since 2004.
DESIGN: We used a mail survey from March through June 2006 within the Slone 
Center Office-Based Research Network, a national practice-based pediatric 
research network.
RESULTS: The response rate was 299 (62.7%) of 477. The observation option was 
considered reasonable by 83.3%, compared with 88.0% in 2004, and was used in a 
median of 15% of acute otitis media cases over the previous 3 months. The most 
common physician-identified barriers to the use of the observation option were 
parental reluctance (83.5%) and the cost and difficulty of follow-up of children 
who do not improve (30.9%). In terms of antibiotic choices for acute otitis 
media, agreement with the guideline's antibiotic recommendation for 4 common 
clinical scenarios was as follows: high-dose amoxicillin for acute otitis media 
with nonsevere symptoms (57.2%), high-dose amoxicillin-clavulanate for acute 
otitis media with severe symptoms (12.7%), high-dose amoxicillin-clavulanate for 
cases that failed to respond to amoxicillin (42.8%), and intramuscular 
ceftriaxone for cases that failed to respond to treatment with 
amoxicillin-clavulanate (16.7%). Each of these proportions declined from 2004.
CONCLUSIONS: Most primary care physicians accept the concept of an observation 
option for acute otitis media but use it only occasionally. Antibiotics 
prescribed for acute otitis media differ markedly from the guideline's 
recommendations, and the difference has increased since 2004.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2006-3601
PMID: 17671053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 1995 Oct;7(10):975-8. doi: 
10.1097/00042737-199510000-00012.

Recurrence of duodenal ulcers during five years of follow-up after cure of 
Helicobacter pylori infection.

Miehlke S(1), Bayerdörffer E, Lehn N, Mannes GA, Höchter W, Weingart J, Sommer 
A, Heldwein W, Müller-Lissner S, Bästlein E, et al.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine II, Klinikum Grosshadern, University of 
Munich, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Chronic Helicobacter pylori-associated gastritis is now widely 
accepted as one of the most important pathogenic factors in duodenal ulcer 
disease. However, little is known about for how long patients remain free of 
duodenal ulcer relapses after H. pylori infection has been cured. In the present 
study, we investigated remission time during a 5-year follow-up period after 
anti-H. pylori treatment.
METHODS: The patients were randomly allocated to treatment with either a 
combination of 3 x 600 mg bismuth subsalicylate and 2 x 1000 mg amoxycillin or 3 
x 600 mg bismuth subsalicylate monotherapy. Endoscopy, including histological 
and microbiological examination of biopsies, was performed 4 weeks after 
termination of treatment and after 1 and 2 years. During the third, fourth and 
fifth years of the follow-up period, patients were monitored twice a year for 
symptoms compatible with ulcer relapse and for their use of anti-ulcer 
medication. Endoscopic and histological examinations were carried out whenever 
symptoms occurred.
RESULTS: Of 56 evaluated patients, 47 showed healing of ulcers after bismuth 
subsalicylate plus amoxycillin compared with 44 of 57 after bismuth 
subsalicylate monotherapy. H. pylori infection was cured in 52% (29 of 56) of 
the patients after combined therapy and in 4% (2 of 57) after the monotherapy. 
The cumulative duodenal ulcer relapse rates after 5 years were 38% (18 of 47) 
after the combined therapy and 75% (33 of 44) after the monotherapy. In patients 
who were cured of H. pylori infection, the cumulative duodenal ulcer relapse 
rate after 5 years was 9.7% (3 of 31), compared with 81.7% (49 of 60) in those 
patients who remained H. pylori-positive after treatment (P < 0.001). In two of 
the three patients who suffered duodenal ulcer relapse after being cured of H. 
pylori infection, H. pylori was present again at the time of relapse.
CONCLUSION: The data suggest that curing H. pylori infection results in 
long-term cure of duodenal ulcer disease and that duodenal ulcer relapses in 
successfully treated patients are most often associated with H. pylori 
reinfection.

DOI: 10.1097/00042737-199510000-00012
PMID: 8590144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Rinsho Byori. 2001 Feb;49(2):130-4.

[Eradication therapy of Helicobacter pylori infection].

[Article in Japanese]

Kodama M(1), Fujioka T.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Medicine, Oita Medical University, Oita-gun, 
Oita-pref., 879-5593.

Helicobacter pylori(H. pylori) infection is recognized to be a pathogen of 
various gastro-duodenal diseases. Eradication therapy of H. pylori reduces the 
recurrence of gastro-duodenal ulcer, and improves gastritis histologically. 
Recently, proton pump inhibitor(PPI) based triple therapy, that combining PPI, 
clarithromycin, amoxicillin is widely accepted throughout the world, and shows 
high eradication rate which ranged about 80-90%. In Japan, one week triple 
therapy is recommended for the treatment of gastro-duodenal ulcer, though it is 
expected the improvement of recurrent peptic ulcer. In the present studies, the 
rate of clarithromycin resistant strains has been increased gradually, and this 
fact may lead to the development of failure of PPI based triple therapy. Another 
problem is suggested by several studies that gastro-esophageal reflux 
disease(GERD) may increase after successful eradication of H. pylori. Reflux 
esophagitis and Barrett's esophagus are recognized as precancerous lesion of 
esophageal adenocarcinoma, but the association of newly occurrence of GERD after 
H. pylori eradication and increase of esophageal adenocarcinoma is not clear. 
Merits and demerits of H. pylori eradication need to be observed carefully over 
a long term.

PMID: 11307304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Scand J Infect Dis. 1994;26(5):577-84. doi: 10.3109/00365549409011816.

Twice daily cefpodoxime proxetil compared with thrice daily 
amoxicillin/clavulanic acid for treatment of acute otitis media in children.

Gehanno P(1), Barry B, Bobin S, Safran C.

Author information:
(1)Hôpital Bichat-Claude-Bernard, Paris, France.

A total of 260 children, 3 months to 11 years old (median age 24 months), with 
acute otitis media (AOM) received either cefpodoxime proxetil (CP) 8 mg/kg/d 
b.i.d. or amoxicillin/clavulanic acid (ACA) 40/10 mg/kg/d t.i.d. for 8 days. A 
significant difference in clinical cure rates was observed between the CP group 
71/118 (60%) and the ACA group 42/105 (40%), p = 0.003. At the follow-up visit 
(20-30 days after the start of treatment), significant advantages were recorded 
with the CP vs. ACA therapy, in terms of satisfactory clinical response [90/111 
(81%) vs 60/94 (63.8%), p = 0.005] residual middle ear effusion (14.4% vs 28.7%, 
p = 0.01) and normal tympanometry (78% vs 61.4%, p = 0.017). Compliance and 
adverse event frequency were the same in both treatment groups. The higher 
clinical cure rate and equivalent safety profile of CP indicates that it is an 
acceptable alternative to ACA for the treatment of AOM in children.

DOI: 10.3109/00365549409011816
PMID: 7855555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Sex Transm Dis. 1988 Oct-Dec;15(4):234-43. doi: 
10.1097/00007435-198810000-00010.

Therapy of uncomplicated gonorrhea due to antibiotic-resistant Neisseria 
gonorrhoeae.

Kraus SJ(1), Reynolds GH, Rolfs RT Jr.

Author information:
(1)Division of Sexually Transmitted Diseases, Centers for Disease Control, 
Atlanta, Georgia 30333.

Antibiotics available to treat uncomplicated anogenital infections due to 
beta-lactamase-producing Neisseria gonorrhoeae include spectinomycin, 
ceftriaxone, and clavulanic acid added to aqueous procaine penicillin G or 
amoxicillin. Important variables in deciding which antibiotic regimen to use 
include effectiveness against urethral, cervical, pharyngeal, and rectal 
infections; cost; eradication of coexisting incubating syphilis; adverse 
effects; efficacy against strains of N. gonorrhoeae with chromosomally mediated 
resistance to antimicrobial agents; ease of administration; patient acceptance; 
and the potential for inducing resistance to antimicrobial agents in pathogens 
other than those causing sexually transmitted diseases. This review outlines the 
advantages and disadvantages of the various regimens.

DOI: 10.1097/00007435-198810000-00010
PMID: 3147528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Arch Esp Urol. 2008 Sep;61(7):776-80. doi: 10.4321/s0004-06142008000700002.

[Evolution of Escherichia coli antibiotic resistances in urine samples from the 
community].

[Article in Spanish]

Sánchez Merino JM(1), Guillán Maquieira C, Fuster Foz C, López Medrono R, 
González Pérez M, Raya Fernández C, García Alonso J.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Urología, Hospital el Bierzo, Ponferrada, León, España. 
sanchezuro@hotmail.com

OBJECTIVES: The objectives of this work are two: first, to evaluate the 
resistance of Escherichia coli to several antibiotics and their trends over a 
six-year period in strands isolated in urine samples from patients receiving 
health-care in general practitioner offices in our environment; and second, to 
evaluate if empirical treatment regimens commonly accepted in our country would 
be applicable in our environment depending on the results of this study.
METHODS: We analyzed the urine cultures positive for Escherichia coli obtained 
from samples collected at the 10 primary health care centers of the health-care 
area of El Bierzo and Laciana (Leon, Spain) between the years 2002 and 2007. In 
vitro resistances of these germs to several common use antibiotics were 
determined: fosfomycin, nitrofurantoin, tobramycin, cefuroxime, cefixime, 
amoxicillin-clavulanic acid, cotrimoxazole, ciprofloxacin, norfloxacin, and 
ampicillin. The existence of statistically significant (p < 0.05) differences in 
sensitivity comparing the years 2002 and 2007, including all antimicrobials 
except cefixime, was analyzed by the chi-square test. For cefixime we compared 
the results between 2002 and 2005.
RESULTS: An increase of the resistance of Escherichia coli isolated in urine to 
all antimicrobials under study has occurred, except for nitrofurantoin, being 
the differences statistically significant in most cases. Nevertheless, 
resistances to fosfomycin and nitrofurantoin have remained below 6% throughout 
the study period. Resistances to tobramycin and cefuroxime were slightly over 
10% and cefixime below 3.4%, although in the last one we only have data until 
2005. Resistances to amoxicillin-clavulanic acid, initially low, have 
progressively increase reaching 20.6% in 2007. The same has happened for 
cotrimoxazole, ciprofloxacin, norfloxacin and ampicillin, passing 32% in 2007 in 
the first three cases and 62% in the last one.
CONCLUSIONS: Variations in bacterial resistance patterns for Escherichia coli 
obliges to have an updated knowledge of them to adapt general empirical 
treatment uses to each specific health-care area.

DOI: 10.4321/s0004-06142008000700002
PMID: 18972911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2003 Sep 15;18(6):641-6. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-2036.2003.01694.x.

Sequential treatment for Helicobacter pylori eradication in duodenal ulcer 
patients: improving the cost of pharmacotherapy.

Hassan C(1), De Francesco V, Zullo A, Scaccianoce G, Piglionica D, Ierardi E, 
Panella C, Morini S.

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterology and Digestive Endoscopy, 'Nuovo Regina Margherita' Hospital, 
Rome, Italy. gastroroma@virgilio.it

BACKGROUND: Several studies have shown that Helicobacter pylori eradication 
rates with standard 7-day triple therapy are unsatisfactory. A novel 10-day 
sequential treatment regimen recently achieved a significantly higher 
eradication rate. To improve the pharmacotherapeutic cost, we evaluated whether 
an acceptable eradication rate could be achieved in peptic ulcer patients by 
halving the dose of clarithromycin.
METHODS: In a prospective, open-label study, 152 duodenal ulcer patients with H. 
pylori infection, assessed by rapid urease test and histology, were enrolled. 
Patients were randomized to receive either a 10-day sequential treatment 
comprising rabeprazole 20 mg b.d. plus amoxicillin 1 g b.d. for the first 5 
days, followed by rabeprazole 20 mg b.d., clarithromycin 500 mg b.d. and 
tinidazole 500 mg b.d. for the remaining 5 days (high-dose therapy), or a 
similar schedule with the clarithromycin doses halved to 250 mg b.d. (low-dose 
therapy). No further antisecretory drugs were offered. Four to six weeks after 
therapy, H. pylori eradication and ulcer healing rates were assessed by 
endoscopy.
RESULTS: Similar H. pylori eradication rates were observed following high- and 
low-dose regimens for both per protocol (97.3% vs. 95.9%; P = N.S.) and 
intention-to-treat (94.7% vs. 92.2%; P = N.S.) analyses. No major side-effects 
were reported. At repeat endoscopy, peptic ulcer healing was observed in 93% and 
93% of patients following high- and low-dose therapy, respectively.
CONCLUSION: The cheaper low-dose sequential regimen may be suggested for H. 
pylori eradication in duodenal ulcer patients, even without continued proton 
pump inhibitor therapy after eradication treatment.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2036.2003.01694.x
PMID: 12969091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Scand J Gastroenterol. 2002 Nov;37(11):1265-8. doi: 10.1080/003655202761020524.

Seven-day triple therapy with omeprazole, amoxycillin and clarithromycin for 
Helicobacter pylori infection in haemodialysis patients.

Tsukada K(1), Miyazaki T, Katoh H, Masuda N, Ojima H, Fukai Y, Nakajima M, Manda 
R, Fukuchi M, Kuwano H, Tsukada O.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of First Surgery, Gunma University School of Medicine, Ueda Kidney 
Clinic, Maebashi, Japan. katukada@topaz.ocn.ne.jp

BACKGROUND: Triple therapy is accepted as the treatment of choice for 
Helicobacter pylori eradication, but there is no consensus on how long the 
therapy should be maintained in haemodialysis (HD(+)) patients. Our aims in this 
study were to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the 7-day triple therapy in 
HD(+) patients.
METHOD: Forty-seven HD(+) and 55 HD(-) patients with dyspepsia underwent 
endoscopy. The prevalence of H. pylori was detected by Giemsa stain, followed by 
the urea breath test (UBT). H. pylori(+) patients were scheduled to undergo 
7-day triple therapy and the success of eradication was investigated by UBT.
RESULTS: Forty-five (44%) patients were positive for H. pylori. Forty of them 
underwent triple therapy and 39 (98%) patients completed the treatment. 
Eradication was successful in 32 (82%) and unsuccessful in 7 (18%) patients. 
There was no significant difference between these groups in age, gender, 
endoscopic findings or HD, and only previous treatment was significant for 
eradication failure by univariate and multivariate logistic regression analysis. 
Side effects were observed in 2 (15%) of 13 HD(+) and 3 (11%) of 27 HD(-) 
patients, and one HD(-) patient had to stop medication because of severe nausea 
and vomiting. The eradication rate was 93% (28/30) in patients without previous 
treatment. The triple therapy was unsuccessful in 7 patients, and 4 of them 
again underwent 7-day triple therapy, but all resulted in failure.
CONCLUSIONS: Seven-day triple therapy is safe and effective for primary 
treatment of H. pylori infection in both HD(+) and HD(-) patients, but a new 
treatment is necessary for patients with previous treatment.

DOI: 10.1080/003655202761020524
PMID: 12465723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Scand J Gastroenterol Suppl. 1994;201:16-23.

The role of acid inhibition in the treatment of Helicobacter pylori infection.

Axon AT(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Digestive Diseases, General Infirmary, Leeds UK.

The recognition that Helicobacter pylori is a causal factor in the development 
of most peptic ulcers (and may play a role in the pathogenesis of gastric 
cancer) has provided an impetus to the search for a suitable regimen that will 
eradicate the organism. Combinations of antibiotics with bismuth (triple 
therapy) eradicate the organism in around 90% of cases, but the regimens are 
complicated, and poor compliance and significant side effects are frequently 
seen. The observation that omeprazole in combination with a single antibiotic 
provides eradication rates of over 80% is an important advance, as this 
combination is a simple regimen and is well tolerated. In this article, the role 
of omeprazole in eradication therapy is discussed, the published data are 
reviewed and hypotheses relating to the mode of action of omeprazole are 
presented. Although the optimum therapy has yet to be identified, acceptable 
results should be obtained by using omeprazole, 40 mg twice daily, plus 
amoxycillin, 500 mg four times daily, for 2 weeks.

PMID: 8047818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Int J Tuberc Lung Dis. 2006 Aug;10(8):932-8.

Response to cotrimoxazole in the management of childhood pneumonia in 
first-level health care facilities.

Noorani QA(1), Qazi SA, Rasmussen ZA, Rehman GN, Khan SS, Muhammadullah I, 
Mohammad YK, Sher GA, Munir NH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health, Aga Khan Foundation, Islamabad, Pakistan. 
qayyum.noorani@akfp.org

Comment in
    Int J Tuberc Lung Dis. 2006 Aug;10(8):828.

BACKGROUND: Reports of high levels of antimicrobial resistance to cotrimoxazole 
in children with non-severe pneumonia (NSP) have prompted calls for a change to 
amoxicillin in the therapeutic guidelines at the first-level health care 
facility (FLHF). FLHFs lack data about the use of World Health Organization 
(WHO) acute respiratory infection (ARI) standard case management (SCM).
OBJECTIVE: To apply ARI SCM guidelines at the FLHF, assess clinical outcome of 
NSP with oral cotrimoxazole and determine the risk factors influencing treatment 
outcome.
DESIGN: Health care workers (HCWs) at 14 health centres managed children aged 
2-59 months with NSP according to ARI SCM guidelines. The primary outcome was 
treatment failure, including change of antibiotic therapy and loss to follow-up.
RESULTS: Of 949 children enrolled, 110 (11.6%) failed therapy with oral 
cotrimoxazole. Clinical failure was significantly higher among children 
presenting with a fast respiratory rate of > or = 15 breaths/min above normal 
for age and wheezing on examination.
CONCLUSIONS: To treat children with NSP at the FLHF, oral cotrimoxazole is an 
acceptable treatment choice in view of the efficacy, cost and ease of use. In 
children with wheezing and signs of pneumonia, the decision to use antibiotic 
therapy should be made after a trial of bronchodilator therapy.

PMID: 16898380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


421. Food Addit Contam Part A Chem Anal Control Expo Risk Assess. 2008 
Dec;25(12):1451-64. doi: 10.1080/02652030802429088.

AFNOR validation of Premi Test, a microbiological-based screening tube-test for 
the detection of antimicrobial residues in animal muscle tissue.

Gaudin V(1), Juhel-Gaugain M, Morétain JP, Sanders P.

Author information:
(1)Community Reference Laboratory, AFSSA Fougères-LERMVD, La Haute Marche, 
France. v.gaudin@fougeres.afssa.fr

Premi Test contains viable spores of a strain of Bacillus stearothermophilus 
which is sensitive to antimicrobial residues, such as beta-lactams, 
tetracyclines, macrolides and sulphonamides. The growth of the strain is 
inhibited by the presence of antimicrobial residues in muscle tissue samples. 
Premi Test was validated according to AFNOR rules (French Association for 
Normalisation). The AFNOR validation was based on the comparison of reference 
methods (French Official method, i.e. four plate test (FPT) and the STAR 
protocol (five plate test)) with the alternative method (Premi Test). A 
preliminary study was conducted in an expert laboratory (Community Reference 
Laboratory, CRL) on both spiked and incurred samples (field samples). Several 
method performance criteria (sensitivity, specificity, relative accuracy) were 
estimated and are discussed, in addition to detection capabilities. Adequate 
agreement was found between the alternative method and the reference methods. 
However, Premi Test was more sensitive to beta-lactams and sulphonamides than 
the FPT. Subsequently, a collaborative study with 11 laboratories was organised 
by the CRL. Blank and spiked meat juice samples were sent to participants. The 
expert laboratory (CRL) statistically analysed the results. It was concluded 
that Premi Test could be used for the routine determination of antimicrobial 
residues in muscle of different animal origin with acceptable analytical 
performance. The detection capabilities of Premi Test for beta-lactams 
(amoxicillin, ceftiofur), one macrolide (tylosin) and tetracycline were at the 
level of the respective maximum residue limits (MRL) in muscle samples or even 
lower.

DOI: 10.1080/02652030802429088
PMID: 19680855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Rev Med Interne. 2008 Mar;29(3):195-9. doi: 10.1016/j.revmed.2007.11.011. Epub 
2008 Jan 10.

[Evaluation of amoxicillin-clavulanic acid prescriptions in a teaching hospital 
of Parisian suburb].

[Article in French]

Dupont C(1), Massé C, Auvert B, Page B, Heym B, Espinasse F, Hanslik T, Rouveix 
E.

Author information:
(1)Service de médecine interne-2, CHU Ambroise-Paré, 9, avenue 
Charles-de-Gaulle, 92104 Boulogne cedex, France. caroline.dupont@apr.aphp.fr

OBJECTIVE: Prospective study of amoxicillin-clavulanic acid (amox-clav) 
prescriptions in the medical departments of a teaching hospital that prescribes 
this antibiotic very often.
DESIGN: From April to May 2004, each patient treated by amox-clav was included. 
Data were collected (age, sex, past diseases, associated-diseases, reason for 
hospitalization, prior antibiotic therapy, date of amox-clav prescription, 
indication for amox-clav prescription, other associated antibiotics, nosocomial 
or community-acquired infection, site of infection, bacteriologic samples and 
bacterial identification, treatment duration and status of the physician). Data 
were analysed by a muldisciplinary group and compared with a referential used 
for antibiotic prescriptions in our hospital.
RESULTS: One hundred and two medical files were analysed. Seventy-one percent of 
amox-clav prescriptions were in adequation with the referential. Combination of 
three criteria (indication of antibiotic therapy, choice of amox-clav and of an 
antibiotic combination) showed that 58 (57%) was acceptable, 29 (28%) was 
debatable and 15 (15%) was unacceptable. Unacceptable prescriptions were often 
made by a junior. The majority of inadequate antibiotic prescriptions referred 
to acute pulmonary infections. Antibiotic combinations were often inadequate and 
treatment duration was too long. The quality of the prescription was more 
accurate when made by a senior.
CONCLUSION: An effort should be made in our teaching hospital to optimize 
antibiotic prescriptions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.revmed.2007.11.011
PMID: 18191002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Intern Emerg Med. 2012 Dec;7(6):517-22. doi: 10.1007/s11739-011-0730-4. Epub 
2011 Nov 22.

Role of gastritis pattern on Helicobacter pylori eradication.

Zullo A(1), Severi C, Vannella L, Hassan C, Sbrozzi-Vanni A, Annibale B.

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterology and Digestive Endoscopy, Nuovo Regina Margherita Hospital, 
Rome, Italy. zullo66@yahoo.it

Helicobacter pylori eradication rate following standard triple therapy is 
decreasing. Identification of predictive factors of therapy success would be 
useful for H. pylori management in clinical practice. This study aimed to 
evaluate the role of different gastritis patterns on the efficacy of the 
currently suggested 14-day triple therapy regimen. One-hundred and seventeen, 
consecutive, non-ulcer dyspeptic patients, with H. pylori infection diagnosed at 
endoscopy, were enrolled. All patients received a 14-day, triple therapy with 
lansoprazole 30 mg, clarithromycin 500 mg and amoxicillin 1 g, all given twice 
daily. Bacterial eradication was assessed with (13)C-urea breath test 4-6 weeks 
after completion of therapy. H. pylori infection was cured in 70.1% at ITT 
analysis and 83.7% at PP analysis. The eradication rate tended to be lower in 
patients with corpus-predominant gastritis as compared to those with 
antral-predominant gastritis at both ITT (66.1 vs 74.5%) and PP (80.4 vs 87.2%) 
analyses. The multivariate analysis failed to identify factors associated with 
therapy success. However, 14-day triple therapy does not achieve acceptable H. 
pylori cure rate in Italy, and should be not recommended in clinical practice.

DOI: 10.1007/s11739-011-0730-4
PMID: 22105372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 1995 Oct;9(5):513-20. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2036.1995.tb00414.x.

Addition of metronidazole to omeprazole/amoxycillin dual therapy increases the 
rate of Helicobacter pylori eradication: a double-blind, randomized trial.

Bell GD(1), Bate CM, Axon AT, Tildesley G, Kerr GD, Green JR, Emmas CE, Taylor 
MD.

Author information:
(1)Ipswich Hospital, UK.

AIMS: To compare the efficacy, safety and tolerability of an 
omeprazole/amoxycillin (OA) dual therapy Helicobacter pylori eradication regimen 
with an omeprazole/amoxycillin/metronidazole (OAM) triple therapy regimen.
METHODS: In this double-blind trial, conducted in 19 hospitals, 119 patients 
with symptomatic duodenal ulcer disease were randomized to receive either 14 
days treatment with omeprazole 40 mg daily, amoxycillin 500 mg t.d.s. and 
placebo followed by a further 14 days' treatment with omeprazole 20 mg daily (n 
= 59) or 14 days treatment with omeprazole 40 mg daily, amoxycillin 500 mg 
t.d.s., and metronidazole 400 mg t.d.s., followed by a further 14 days' 
treatment with omeprazole 20 mg daily (n = 60). H. pylori status was assessed by 
13C-urea breath test at entry and at 4 weeks post-treatment.
RESULTS: H. pylori infection was eradicated in 46% of the OA treated patients 
and in 92% of the OAM treated patients, a mean difference of 46% (P < 0.0001, 
95% CI for the difference: +30 to +62). In only one patient was the duodenal 
ulcer not endoscopically healed after 4 weeks of treatment (OA 100%; OAM 98% 
healed). There were no significant differences in speed of symptom relief or 
improvement in symptoms between the two groups. Both regimens were well 
tolerated, with 96% of patients completing the course, and only one patient 
withdrawing due to an adverse event. The only side-effect with a significantly 
higher incidence in the OAM group was diarrhoea, which occurred in 36% of 
patients compared to 16% of patients in the OA group (P < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: A regimen consisting of omeprazole 40 mg daily, amoxycillin 500 mg 
t.d.s. and metronidazole 400 mg t.d.s. for 14 days gives an appreciably higher 
H. pylori eradication rate than omeprazole and amoxycillin alone, with 
acceptable tolerability.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2036.1995.tb00414.x
PMID: 8580271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. J Public Health Med. 2001 Jun;23(2):109-13. doi: 10.1093/pubmed/23.2.109.

Is untargeted outreach visiting in primary care effective? A pragmatic 
randomized controlled trial.

Hall L(1), Eccles M, Barton R, Steen N, Campbell M.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Services Research, University of Newcastle upon Tyne.

BACKGROUND: There is increasing evidence that clinical guidelines can lead to 
improvements in clinical care. However, they are not self-implementing. Outreach 
visits may improve prescribing behaviour.
METHODS: Within a before-and-after pragmatic randomized controlled trial, 
involving all general practices in one health district, routine methods were 
used to distribute guidelines for management of Helicobacter pylori eradication. 
Intervention practices were offered a visit and the conduct of an audit by a 
pharmacist trained in the techniques of outreach visiting. The intervention was 
evaluated using level three Prescribing Analysis and Cost (PACT) data for 
metronidazole and omeprazole for the two 12 month periods around the 
introduction of the guidelines.
RESULTS: Of the 38 intervention practices 19 accepted an outreach visit and 
three accepted the offer of an audit. There was a significant increase in 
omeprazole use during the study of 0.24 [95 per cent confidence interval (CI) 
+0.19 to +0.29] dose units per year but no effect from the offer [-0.02 (95 per 
cent CI -0.12 to +0.08) dose units] or acceptance of a visit [-0.03 (95 per cent 
CI -0.15 to +0.08) dose units]. The results for metronidazole were similar, with 
an increase in use of 0.028 (95 per cent CI +0.018 to +0.038) dose units per 
year. The effect of the intervention was a non-significant change in prescribing 
of -0.005 (95 per cent CI -0.025 to +0.015) dose units. Accepting a visit had 
little effect on prescribing: a change of 0.003 (95 per cent CI -0.021 to 
+0.027) dose units.
CONCLUSIONS: The routine use of untargeted outreach visiting is probably not a 
worthwhile strategy.

DOI: 10.1093/pubmed/23.2.109
PMID: 11450926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. An Bras Dermatol. 2011 Jul-Aug;86(4 Suppl 1):S21-3. doi: 
10.1590/s0365-05962011000700004.

The importance of patch tests in the differential diagnosis of adverse drug 
reactions.

[Article in English, Portuguese]

Travassos AR(1), Pacheco D, Antunes J, Silva R, Almeida LS, Filipe P.

Author information:
(1)Clínica Universitária de Dermatologia, Hospital de Santa Maria, Lisboa, 
Portugal. ritatravassos@gmail.com

Exudative erythema multiforme is an acute self-limited skin disease often 
associated with infections (usually viral), and also with systemic diseases and 
drugs. We report the case of a 39-year-old woman diagnosed with systemic lupus 
erythematosus, who presented at the emergency clinic with exudative erythema 
multiforme which started 10 days after taking amoxicillin and clavulanic acid 
for tonsillitis together (almost simultaneously) with the pneumococcal vaccine. 
Rowell's syndrome was also considered to be a possibility. Skin patch tests were 
carried with the standard battery of patches (GPEDC) and the active ingredients 
of the suspected drugs (Chemotechnique ®), with readings at D2 and D3. The tests 
were positive for amoxicillin 10% pet (++), ampicillin 10% pet (+ +) and 
penicillin G potassium 10% pet (+). We accepted the diagnosis of erythema 
multiforme due to amoxicillin, confirmed by patch testing.

DOI: 10.1590/s0365-05962011000700004
PMID: 22068762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Int J Med Mushrooms. 2012;14(1):55-63. doi: 10.1615/intjmedmushr.v14.i1.60.

Yellow brain culinary-medicinal mushroom, Tremella mesenterica Ritz.:Fr. (higher 
Basidiomycetes), is subjectively but not objectively effective for eradication 
of Helicobacter pylori: a prospective controlled trial.

Lachter J(1), Yampolsky Y, Gafni-Schieber R, Wasser SP.

Author information:
(1)Rambam Health-Care Campus, Technion - Israel Institute of Technology, Israel. 
j_lachter@rambam.health.gov.il

Inhibitory effects of the higher Basidiomycetes mushrooms, including species of 
genus Tremella, on the growth of Helicobacter pyroli (Hp) have been described. 
This study aimed to test T. mesenterica (Tm) efficacy in vivo on eradication of 
Hp. This IRB-approved study included 52 consenting patients diagnosed with Hp 
infections. The patients were selected for 10-day treatments with one of the 
three arms of the protocol, namely, (i) Tm 2 g, (ii) Tm given with omeprazole 20 
mg, or (iii) omeprazole 20 mg, clarithromycin 500 mg, and amoxicillin 1000 mg 
(all regimens given twice daily). The Tm submerged cultivated mycelium in the 
form of tablets (1 g) was supplied free of charge to patients. Three weeks after 
completing the therapy, breath testing was assessed for Hp eradication. The 
patients who took the standard triple therapy had a 70% (n = 14) eradication 
rate of Hp. Of the patients taking Tm, with and without omeprazole, only one had 
a breath test indicative of eradication of Hp, p < 0.000. Tm-treated patients 
had fewer adverse events and equivalent symptomatic relief. Limitations of this 
study include the brief duration of Tm therapy. Longer treatment might achieve 
better results, but was judged to be not warranted, so as to not excessively 
further delay accepted therapy. Ten-day Tm was not found to be effective in vivo 
in eradicating Hp, whether if given with or without omeprazole. Significant 
symptomatic relief found among Tm-treated patients suggests that further study 
of Tm is well justified.

DOI: 10.1615/intjmedmushr.v14.i1.60
PMID: 22339708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Nihon Rinsho. 1999 Jan;57(1):32-42.

[History of the treatment of Helicobacter pylori and clinical efficacy].

[Article in Japanese]

Yamamoto I(1), Fukuda Y, Shimoyama T.

Author information:
(1)Yamamoto Clinic, Hyogo College of Medicine.

The combination of a proton pump inhibitor with antibiotics has been accepted as 
an effective treatment for the eradication of Helicobacter pylori and the most 
rational regimen to cure peptic ulcers. Triple therapies including two 
antibiotics and a proton pump inhibitor achieves constant and high eradication 
rate. The one-week, low-dose triple regimen including metronidazole has been 
accepted in European countries, but the new triple therapy with proton pump 
inhibitor, amoxicillin and clarithromycin is recommended for treatment of H. 
pylori infection in Japan. Quadruple therapy with two antibiotics, bismuth and a 
proton pump inhibitor is a second-line therapy. Triple therapy with ranitidine 
bismuth and two antibiotics may be promising.

PMID: 10036933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. J Chromatogr A. 2006 May 19;1115(1-2):46-57. doi: 10.1016/j.chroma.2006.02.086. 
Epub 2006 Apr 3.

Trace determination of beta-lactam antibiotics in surface water and urban 
wastewater using liquid chromatography combined with electrospray tandem mass 
spectrometry.

Cha JM(1), Yang S, Carlson KH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Colorado State University, 
Fort Collins, CO 80523-1372, USA.

A sensitive and reliable method using liquid chromatography-electrospray tandem 
mass spectrometry has been developed and validated for the trace determination 
of beta-lactam antibiotics in natural and wastewater matrices. Water samples 
were enriched by solid-phase extraction. The analytes included amoxicillin 
(AMOX), ampicillin (AMP), oxacillin (OXA), cloxacillin (CLOX) and cephapirin 
(CEP). Average recoveries of beta-lactams (BLs) in fortified samples were 
generally above 75% (except amoxicillin) with the standard deviations lower than 
10% in water matrices. Amoxicillin was not quantified due to poor recovery (less 
than 40%) in the investigated water matrices. Matrix effects were found to be 
minimal when measuring these compounds in water matrices. The accuracy, within- 
and between-run precision of the assay fell within acceptable ranges of 15% 
absolute. The method detection limit (MDL) was estimated to range between 8 and 
10 ng/L in surface water, 13 and 18 ng/L in the influent and 8 and 15 ng/L in 
the effluent from a wastewater treatment plant. A large number of actual water 
samples were analyzed using this method in order to evaluate the occurrence of 
the beta-lactams in a river and a wastewater treatment plant in northern 
Colorado. Most of the samples were negative for all analytes. These compounds 
were found at 15-17 ng/L in the three influent samples and at 9-11 ng/L in three 
surface water samples out of a total of 200 samples. This indicates that 
contamination by beta-lactam antibiotics is of minor importance to the small 
mixed-watershed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chroma.2006.02.086
PMID: 16595135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 1999 Feb;43(2):283-6. doi: 10.1128/AAC.43.2.283.

Escherichia coli ATCC 35218 as a quality control isolate for susceptibility 
testing of Haemophilus influenzae with haemophilus test medium.

Butler DL(1), Jakielaszek CJ, Miller LA, Poupard JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anti-Infectives, SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals, 
Collegeville, Pennsylvania, PA 19426-0989, USA. Deborah_L_Butler@sbphrd.com

Current National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards (NCCLS) 
susceptibility guidelines for quality control testing with Haemophilus 
influenzae do not include a beta-lactamase-producing strain that could detect 
the deterioration of the beta-lactamase inhibitor components of 
amoxicillin-clavulanic acid, ampicillin-sulbactam, and piperacillin-tazobactam. 
The objective of the study was to determine if comparable quality control 
results for Escherichia coli ATCC 35218, a beta-lactamase-producing strain, 
would be produced for the three beta-lactam-beta-lactamase inhibitor agents with 
Haemophilus test medium and Mueller-Hinton medium. The criteria used in this 
study to determine if Haemophilus test medium was acceptable for quality control 
testing of E. coli ATCC 35218 was that 100% of the results obtained with an 
antimicrobial agent-methodology combination needed to be within the acceptable 
NCCLS ranges established with Mueller-Hinton medium. The MIC testing results 
obtained by the broth microdilution and E-test methods with 
amoxicillin-clavulanic acid and piperacillin-tazobactam were all within the 
NCCLS ranges; however, the results obtained with ampicillin-sulbactam by both 
methods were not within the NCCLS ranges. Acceptable results were obtained by 
the disk diffusion methodology with ampicillin-sulbactam and 
piperacillin-tazobactam but not with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid. When 
performing susceptibility testing with H. influenzae with the 
beta-lactam-beta-lactamase inhibitors, in addition to quality control testing 
with H. influenzae ATCC 49247, testing of E. coli ATCC 35218 on Haemophilus test 
medium is an effective way to monitor the beta-lactamase inhibitors in some 
antimicrobial agent-methodology combinations.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.43.2.283
PMCID: PMC89064
PMID: 9925519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Pediatrics. 2005 Jun;115(6):1455-65. doi: 10.1542/peds.2004-1665.

Nonsevere acute otitis media: a clinical trial comparing outcomes of watchful 
waiting versus immediate antibiotic treatment.

McCormick DP(1), Chonmaitree T, Pittman C, Saeed K, Friedman NR, Uchida T, 
Baldwin CD.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Academic Pediatrics, University of Texas Medical Branch, 
301 University Blvd, Galveston, TX 77555-1119, USA. david.mccormick@utmb.edu

Comment in
    J Fam Pract. 2005 Sep;54(9):754.
    Curr Infect Dis Rep. 2007 May;9(3):183-4. doi: 10.1007/s11908-007-0029-9.

OBJECTIVE: The widespread use of antibiotics for treatment of acute otitis media 
(AOM) has resulted in the emergence of multidrug-resistant pathogens that are 
difficult to treat. However, it has been shown that most children with nonsevere 
AOM recover without ABX. The objective of this study was to evaluate the safety, 
efficacy, acceptability, and costs of a non-ABX intervention for children with 
nonsevere AOM.
METHODOLOGY: Children 6 months to 12 years old with AOM were screened by using a 
novel AOM-severity screening index. Parents of children with nonsevere AOM 
received an educational intervention, and their children were randomized to 
receive either immediate antibiotics (ABX; amoxicillin plus symptom medication) 
or watchful waiting (WW; symptom medication only). The investigators, but not 
the parents, were blinded to enrollment status. Primary outcomes included parent 
satisfaction with AOM care, resolution of symptoms, AOM failure/recurrence, and 
nasopharyngeal carriage of Streptococcus pneumoniae strains resistant to ABX. 
Secondary outcomes included medication-related adverse events, serious adverse 
events, unanticipated AOM-related office and emergency department visits and 
telephone calls, the child's absence from day care or school resulting from AOM, 
the parent's absence from school or work because of their child's AOM, and costs 
of treatment. Subjects were defined as failing (days 0-12) or recurring (days 
13-30) if they experienced a higher AOM-severity score on reexamination.
RESULTS: A total of 223 subjects were recruited: 73% were nonwhite, 57% were <2 
years old, 47% attended day care, 82% had experienced prior AOM, and 83% had not 
been fully immunized with heptavalent pneumococcal vaccine. One hundred twelve 
were randomized to ABX, and 111 were randomized to WW. Ninety-four percent of 
the subjects were followed to the 30-day end point. Parent satisfaction with AOM 
care was not different between the 2 treatment groups at either day 12 or 30. 
Compared with WW, symptom scores on days 1 to 10 resolved faster in subjects 
treated with immediate ABX. At day 12, among the immediate-ABX group, 69% of 
tympanic membranes and 25% of tympanograms were normal, compared with 51% of 
normal tympanic membranes and 10% of normal tympanograms in the WW group. 
Parents of children in the ABX group gave their children fewer doses of pain 
medication than did parents of children in the WW group. Subjects in the ABX 
group experienced 16% fewer failures than subjects in the WW group. Of the 
children in the WW group, 66% completed the study without needing ABX. Immediate 
ABX resulted in eradication of S pneumoniae carriage in the majority of 
children, but S pneumoniae strains cultured from children in the ABX group at 
day 12 were more likely to be multidrug-resistant than strains from children in 
the WW group. More ABX-related adverse events were noted in the ABX group, 
compared with the WW group. No serious AOM-related adverse events were observed 
in either group. Office and emergency department visits, phone calls, and days 
of work/school missed were not different between groups. Prescriptions for ABX 
were reduced by 73% in the WW group compared with the ABX group. Costs of ABX 
averaged $47.41 per subject in the ABX group and $11.43 in the WW group.
CONCLUSIONS: Sixty-six percent of subjects in the WW group completed the study 
without ABX. Parent satisfaction was the same between groups regardless of 
treatment. Compared with WW, immediate ABX treatment was associated with 
decreased numbers of treatment failures and improved symptom control but 
increased ABX-related adverse events and a higher percent carriage of 
multidrug-resistant S pneumoniae strains in the nasopharynx at the day-12 visit. 
Key factors in implementing a WW strategy were (a) a method to classify AOM 
severity; (b) parent education; (c) management of AOM symptoms; (d) access to 
follow-up care; and (e) use of an effective ABX regimen, when needed. When these 
caveats are observed, WW may be an acceptable alternative to immediate ABX for 
some children with nonsevere AOM.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2004-1665
PMID: 15930204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Ann Rheum Dis. 2001 Apr;60(4):359-66. doi: 10.1136/ard.60.4.359.

Antibiotic prophylaxis for haematogenous bacterial arthritis in patients with 
joint disease: a cost effectiveness analysis.

Krijnen P(1), Kaandorp CJ, Steyerberg EW, van Schaardenburg D, Moens HJ, Habbema 
JD.

Author information:
(1)Center for Clinical Decision Sciences, Department of Public Health, Erasmus 
University, PO Box 1738, 3000 DR Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
krijnen@mgz.fgg.eur.nl

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost effectiveness of antibiotic prophylaxis for 
haematogenous bacterial arthritis in patients with joint disease.
METHODS: In a decision analysis, data from a prospective study on bacterial 
arthritis in 4907 patients with joint disease were combined with literature data 
to assess risks and benefits of antibiotic prophylaxis. Effectiveness and cost 
effectiveness calculations were performed on antibiotic prophylaxis for various 
patient groups. Grouping was based on (a) type of event leading to transient 
bacteraemia-that is, infections (dermal, respiratory/urinary tract) and invasive 
medical procedures-and (b) the patient's susceptibility to bacterial arthritis 
which was increased in the presence of rheumatoid arthritis, large joint 
prostheses, comorbidity, and old age.
RESULTS: Of the patients with joint disease, 59% had no characteristics that 
increased susceptibility to bacterial arthritis, and 31% had one. For dermal 
infections, the effectiveness of antibiotic prophylaxis was maximally 35 quality 
adjusted life days (QALDs) and the cost effectiveness maximally $52 000 per 
quality adjusted life year (QALY). For other infections, the effectiveness of 
prophylaxis was lower and the cost effectiveness higher. Prophylaxis for 
invasive medical procedures seemed to be acceptable only in patients with high 
susceptibility: 1 QALD at a cost of $1300/QALY; however, the results were 
influenced substantially when the level of efficacy of the prophylaxis or cost 
of prophylactic antibiotics was changed.
CONCLUSION: Prophylaxis seems to be indicated only for dermal infections, and 
for infections of the urinary and respiratory tract in patients with increased 
susceptibility to bacterial arthritis. Prophylaxis for invasive medical 
procedures, such as dental treatment, may only be indicated for patients with 
joint disease who are highly susceptible.

DOI: 10.1136/ard.60.4.359
PMCID: PMC1753617
PMID: 11247866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Z Geburtshilfe Perinatol. 1987 Sep-Oct;191(5):202-5.

[Amoxicillin in the treatment of asymptomatic bacteriuria in pregnancy--3g 
single dose versus 3 times 750mg 4-day therapy].

[Article in German]

Gerstner GJ(1), Müller G, Nahler G.

Author information:
(1)Geburtshilflich-gynäkologische Abteilung, Allg. ö. Krankenhaus Stockerau.

A prospective, randomized, controlled comparative clinical trial was conducted 
to assess the efficacy and tolerability of 2 regimens of amoxicillin. In group A 
a single dose of 3 g amoxicillin and in group B a 4-day course of 3 doses of 750 
mg amoxicillin tablets were administered 8-hourly. Significant bacteriuria 
(greater than or equal to 10(5) cfu/ml midstream urine) and of urine samples 
obtained by bladder catheterization (greater than or equal to 10(4) cfu/ml) was 
diagnosed with the dip-slide method (Uricult). 91 pregnant women with a mean 
gestational age of 25 weeks (14-38) were randomly allocated to both treatment 
groups. Group A consisted of 53 patients, group B of 38. The treatment groups 
were comparable in terms of age, duration of pregnancy and additional therapy. 
Control examinations of urine cultures were taken after 1 and 4 weeks following 
therapy. The predominant bacterial species was E. coli isolated in 60 to 65 
percent. Bacteriological cure rates at 1 and 4 weeks were in group A 77% and 74% 
and in group B 62% each respectively. The differences in cure rates were not 
significant. Side effects occurred in group A in 4% and in group B in 13%. Our 
results suggest that for the treatment of asymptomatic bacteriuria in pregnancy 
a single dose of 3 g of amoxicillin is equally effective and acceptable as a 
4-day course with the advantage of a lower total-dose, lower costs and a better 
compliance.

PMID: 3324523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Eur J Obstet Gynecol Reprod Biol. 1989 May;31(2):163-71. doi: 
10.1016/0028-2243(89)90177-9.

Postpartum bacteriuria. A multicenter evaluation of different screening 
procedures and a controlled short-course treatment trial with amoxycillin.

Stray-Pedersen B(1), Solberg VM, Torkildsen E, Lie S, Velken M, Aaserud J, 
Kierulf KA, Blakstad M, Ulshagen K, Sandstad B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology, Aker Hospital, Oslo, Norway.

A total of 10,909 puerperal women from 6 different hospitals were screened for 
bacteriuria by culture of voided midstream urine (MSU), and a significant growth 
was found in 881 patients (8.1%). In 731 cases the urine was reexamined by using 
suprapubic aspiration (SPA), and in only 354 (48%) of the samples the diagnosis 
of bacteriuria was confirmed. The contamination rate of the MSU samples varied 
from 46 to 69% between the different hospitals, indicating that in the 
postpartum period positive MSU findings would necessitate more thorough 
examination in order to confirm the diagnosis of urinary tract infection. In our 
study, suprapubic aspiration was found to be a simple and acceptable method 
without any side effects. Confirmed bacteriuria occurred in 3.2% of the women. 
Operative delivery (Cesarean section, forceps and vacuum extractor delivery), 
epidural anesthesia and bladder catheterization increased the risk of 
bacteriuria in the postpartum period. Only 27% of the women with positive 
bladder urine complained of dysuria and this symptom was significantly more 
common in women who had been catheterized. 230 patients with confirmed 
bacteriuria with amoxycillin-sensitive bacterias participated in a randomized 
short-course treatment trial: 114 women received 3 days treatment with 
amoxycillin (1.5 g/day), 116 received the traditional 10 days therapy (750 mg 
amoxycillin/day). Both antibiotic regimens were observed to be effective with a 
cure rate of 96 and 98%, respectively. Short-course antibiotic treatment should 
thus be recommended to puerperal women with urinary tract infections since this 
avoids prolonged drug exposure to the lactating mother.

DOI: 10.1016/0028-2243(89)90177-9
PMID: 2668060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Can J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2015 Nov-Dec;29(8):e7-10. doi: 10.1155/2015/659390. 
Epub 2015 Aug 24.

A 14-day course of triple therapy is superior to a 10-day course for the 
eradication of Helicobacter pylori: A Canadian study conducted in a 'real world' 
setting.

Chen YI, Fallone CA.

BACKGROUND: Successful Helicobacter pylori eradication with the traditional 
seven-day course of proton pump inhibitor (PPI) triple therapy is declining. 
Prolonging therapy to either 10 or 14 days is associated with better 
eradications rates.
OBJECTIVE: To compare the effectiveness of 14-day course of triple therapy 
versus a 10-day course in the treatment of H pylori in Canada.
METHODS: Consecutive treatment-naive patients with clinical indications for H 
pylori eradication underwent either a 10-day course or a 14-day course of 
traditional PPI triple therapy depending on the date of the office visit (an odd 
date received the 10-day course, whereas an even date received the 14-day 
treatment). H pylori eradication was ascertained via urea breath test or gastric 
biopsies performed ≥4 weeks after completion of therapy. Analyses were by both 
intention to treat and per-protocol.
RESULTS: A total of 83 patients were included in the study (31 in the 10-day 
group and 52 in the 14-day group). In the intention-to-treat analysis, 
eradication rates were 82.7% (95% CI 70% to 92%) versus 45.2% (95% CI 27% to 
64%), favouring the 14-day treatment (P<0.001). Similarly, in the per-protocol 
analysis, eradication rates were 91.5% (95% CI 80% to 98%) versus 63.6% (95% CI 
41% to 83%), favouring the 14-day arm (P=0.01). Adverse events and compliance 
were not significantly different between the two groups.
CONCLUSION: A 14-day course of standard PPI triple therapy was superior to a 
shorter-duration therapy and should be included as a first-line regimen for H 
pylori eradication in Canada. The 10-day course of treatment did not achieve an 
acceptable eradication rate and should no longer be used in this country.

HISTORIQUE : L’éradication de l’Helicobacter pylori par la trithérapie classique 
d’inhibiteur de la pompe à protons (IPP) pendant sept jours est en décroissance. 
Le prolongement de la thérapie à dix ou 14 jours s’associe à de meilleurs taux 
d’éradication.
OBJECTIF : Comparer l’efficacité de la trithérapie de 14 jours à celle de dix 
jours pour traiter l’H pylori au Canada.
MÉTHODOLOGIE : Des patients consécutifs naïfs au traitement ayant des 
indications cliniques d’éradication de l’H pylori ont suivi une trithérapie 
d’IPP pendant dix ou 14 jours selon la date de leur consultation (traitement de 
dix jours s’ils avaient consulté à une date impaire et de 14 jours s’ils avaient 
consulté à une date paire). Les chercheurs ont évalué l’éradication de l’H 
pylori par le test respiratoire à l’urée ou des biopsies gastriques effectuées 
au moins quatre semaines après la fin du traitement. Ils ont procédé à des 
analyses de l’intention de traiter et conformes au protocole.
RÉSULTATS : Au total, 83 patients ont participé à l’étude (31 dans le groupe de 
dix jours et 52 dans celui de 14 jours). Dans l’analyse de l’intention de 
traiter, le taux d’éradication s’élevait à 82,7 % (95 % IC 70 % à 92 %) par 
rapport à 45,2 % (95 % IC 27 % à 64 %), ce qui favorisait le traitement de 14 
jours (P<0,001). De même, dans l’analyse conforme au protocole, le taux 
d’éradication s’élevait à 91,5 % (95 % IC 80 % à 98 %) par rapport à 63,6 % (95 
% IC 41 % à 83 %), ce qui favorisait également le volet de 14 jours (P=0,01). 
Les événements indésirables et l’adhérence ne différaient pas de manière 
significative entre les deux groupes.
CONCLUSION : Une trithérapie d’IPP standard de 14 jours était supérieure au 
traitement plus court et devrait devenir la posologie de première ligne pour 
éradiquer l’H pylori au Canada. Le traitement de dix jours ne s’associait pas à 
un taux d’éradication acceptable et ne devrait plus être utilisé au pays.

DOI: 10.1155/2015/659390
PMCID: PMC4699606
PMID: 26301332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Acta Gastroenterol Latinoam. 2014 Jun;44(2):88-93.

[Evolution of the response to the first-line therapy for Helicobacter pylori 
infection in Uruguay].

[Article in Spanish]

Dacoll C, Balter H, Varela L, Buenavida G, González N, Silveira A, Cohen H.

INTRODUCTION: The eradication rate of the Helicobacter pylori (H pylori) 
infection using standard triple therapy has dropped globally in recent years, 
primarily due to the occurrence of antibiotic resistance.
METHODS: Several therapy regimens were assessed in 823 patients treated the 
first time for H pylori infection in Uruguay, during the 1997 to 2011 period, 
divided into five-year groups. All patients underwent 13C isotope-urea breath 
testing, between the 8th and 24th weeks after therapy. The standard triple plan 
(amoxicillin, clarithromycin and proton pump inhibitors) was the most commonly 
used (86.8%).
RESULTS: The overall eradication rate was 66.6% (548 patients). With the 
standard triple plan, the reported eradication rates were 75% for the first 
5-year term and 70.1% for the second 5-year term. The difference between these 
two periods was not statistically significant (P = 0.201). However, in the last 
term the eradication rate further declined to 62.4%, with a statistically 
significant difference (P = 0.014). No significant correlations were found 
between the response to therapy in this population and either the use of alcohol 
and/or yerba mate or the smoking habits.
CONCLUSIONS: In Uruguay, the eradication rate of H pylori infection has dropped 
in the last five years and is below the internationally accepted levels. This 
feature demands searching for more effective alternative therapies, adapting the 
management to the national reality based on local antibiotic resistance patterns 
and drug availability.

PMID: 25199301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Br J Obstet Gynaecol. 1985 May;92(5):498-505. doi: 
10.1111/j.1471-0528.1985.tb01355.x.

Single-dose amoxycillin in the treatment of bacteriuria in pregnancy and the 
puerperium--a controlled clinical trial.

Masterton RG, Evans DC, Strike PW.

Ninety obstetric patients with significant bacteriuria were treated randomly 
with either a single dose of 3 g amoxycillin or with a conventional course of 
ampicillin over 7 days. Treatment groups were comparable in terms of age, 
gravidity and socioeconomic status, and the outcome of pregnancy in the two 
groups did not differ significantly. Cure rates, assessed at 1 week and 6 weeks 
after treatment, were not significantly different: 88% for single-dose treatment 
and 84% for conventional treatment. It is concluded that a single dose of 3 g 
amoxycillin is a safe, effective and acceptable treatment for bacteriuria in 
pregnancy and the puerperium.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1471-0528.1985.tb01355.x
PMID: 3888250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2006 Jul 1;24(1):81-6. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2036.2006.02969.x.

Seven-day is more effective than 4-day ranitidine bismuth citrate-based triple 
therapy in eradication of Helicobacter pylori in children: a prospective 
randomized study.

Tam YH(1), Yeung CK, Lee KH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Paediatric Surgery and Paediatric Urology, Department of Surgery, 
Chinese University of Hong Kong, Prince of Wales Hospital, Hong Kong, China. 
pyhtam@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: Helicobacter pylori infection is common in paediatric population. To 
date, there is still no universally accepted recommendation on the treatment of 
this infection in children. Ranitidine bismuth citrate-based triple therapy has 
been shown to be effective in H. pylori eradication in adults but its use has 
rarely been validated in children.
AIM: To investigate the efficacy of ranitidine bismuth citrate-based triple 
therapy in eradication of H. pylori in children and to determine the shortest 
duration of treatment required.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We conducted a prospective randomized study comparing 
ranitidine bismuth citrate plus amoxicillin plus clarithromycin given for 4 days 
vs. 7 days in H. pylori-infected children diagnosed by (13)C-urea breath test. 
Eradication was evaluated by repeat (13)C-urea breath test at 6 weeks after 
treatment.
RESULTS: A total of 206 children were recruited (median age 12 years, 97 boys 
and 109 girls). Ninety-eight (47.6%) and 108 (52.4%) children were randomized to 
receive 7-day and 4-day regimen respectively. The eradication rate of 4-day 
treatment arm was 77.8% (both intention-to-treat and per protocol) compared with 
88.8% (intention-to-treat, P = 0.036) and 89.7% (per protocol, P = 0.022) of 
7-day regimen. There was no statistical difference in terms of side effects 
between the two groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Seven-day ranitidine bismuth citrate-based triple therapy is an 
effective and well-tolerated treatment for eradication of H. pylori in children.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2036.2006.02969.x
PMID: 16803605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Pediatr Infect Dis J. 1999 Dec;18(12):1085-91. doi: 
10.1097/00006454-199912000-00012.

Compliance of German pediatric patients with oral antibiotic therapy: results of 
a nationwide survey.

Hoppe JE(1), Blumenstock G, Grotz W, Selbmann HK.

Author information:
(1)University Children's Hospital, Eberhard Karl University, Tübingen, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Noncompliance with a prescribed therapy is a common problem in 
ambulatory pediatrics.
OBJECTIVE: To establish a nationwide status quo of compliance of German 
ambulatory pediatric patients with oral antibiotics prescribed for various 
bacterial infections.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In this study, organized and financed by the German 
Society for Pediatric Infectious Diseases, 42 pediatricians in private practice 
who were selected to represent the 3 main regions of Germany and residence in 
large cities or small towns, respectively, enrolled consecutive patients who had 
bacterial infections that required therapy with oral antibiotics. Choice of 
agent and duration of treatment were left to the study physicians. Compliance 
was measured by a standardized telephone interview on the penultimate day and a 
urine bioassay for antibacterial activity on the last day of the planned 
treatment period. Parents did not know the true purpose of the study.
RESULTS: Five hundred eight-four patients were fully evaluable. The most 
frequent diagnoses included tonsillopharyngitis (n = 231), otitis media (n = 
170) and lower respiratory tract infections (n = 114). Most frequently 
prescribed antibiotics included amoxicillin (n = 102), potassium penicillin V (n 
= 81) and clarithromycin (n = 67). Overall compliance (positive urine test) on 
the last day of therapy was 69.5% (406 of 584 patients). Compliance was not 
significantly influenced by the region of residence or the underlying bacterial 
infection. It was significantly associated with the antibiotic used (macrolides, 
89.0%; penicillins, 62.2%; cephalosporins, 66.4%; P = 0.0001 for macrolides vs. 
the others). Best compliance was found with clarithromycin (94.0%) and 
erythromycin estolate (89.8%). Compliance was also significantly better in 
patients > or =6 years old (77.7%; P = 0.016); with a treatment duration of < or 
=7 days (77.6%; P = 0.014); when the drug package contained a dose-taking 
reminder (79.7%; P = 0.003); and when the pediatrician's behavior toward the 
patient was assessed by the parents as "very sympathetic" or "sympathetic" 
(72.6%; P = 0.017). Subjecting all variables to logistic regression analysis, we 
found 3 variables to be significant predictors of treatment compliance: choice 
of antibiotic (P = 0.0001); patient age (P = 0.0008); and residence in town or 
city (P = 0.03).
CONCLUSIONS: A noncompliance rate of >30% is unsatisfactory. Whereas some 
variables significantly associated with compliance cannot be influenced (patient 
age; place of residence in town or city), others are amenable to modifications. 
These include the physician-patient interaction and the choice of antibiotic. 
Agents should be preferred that are well-accepted by patients, that enable 
short-term therapy with few daily doses and with a package that contains a 
dose-taking reminder.

DOI: 10.1097/00006454-199912000-00012
PMID: 10608630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect Dis. 2000 May;19(5):332-5. doi: 
10.1007/s100960050489.

Management of brain abscesses with sequential intravenous/oral antibiotic 
therapy.

Skoutelis AT(1), Gogos CA, Maraziotis TE, Bassaris HP.

Author information:
(1)Section of Infectious Diseases, Patras University Medical School, University 
Hospital, Rio Patra, Greece.

Eight patients with brain abscesses who refused prolonged hospitalisation were 
treated with a short course (6-12 days) of intravenous antibiotics followed by 
prolonged treatment (15-19 weeks) with an oral antibiotic regimen consisting of 
metronidazole, ciprofloxacin and amoxicillin. All patients responded favourably 
as shown clinically and in imaging studies. No severe adverse events or sequelae 
were noted. On admission all patients had a normal or mildly impaired mental 
status, abscesses less than 3 cm in diameter and no serious predisposing 
factors. Although combined surgical/medical treatment remains the standard 
approach in management of these patients, the findings suggest that oral 
antibiotic therapy only subsequent to a short course of intravenous antibiotics 
may be an acceptable alternative in selected cases.

DOI: 10.1007/s100960050489
PMID: 10898132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Lancet. 1994 Nov 26;344(8935):1461-5. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(94)90288-7.

Randomised comparison of amoxycillin and erythromycin in treatment of genital 
chlamydial infection in pregnancy.

Alary M(1), Joly JR, Moutquin JM, Mondor M, Boucher M, Fortier A, Pinault JJ, 
Paris G, Carrier S, Chamberland H, et al.

Author information:
(1)Groupe de Recherche en Epidémiologie, Faculté de Médecine, Université Laval, 
Québec, Canada.

Comment in
    Lancet. 1995 Mar 4;345(8949):590. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(95)90502-2.

Erythromycin, the standard treatment for chlamydial infection in pregnant women, 
commonly causes side-effects, which limits its efficacy. In a randomised, 
double-blind study, we compared amoxycillin with erythromycin in this setting. 
210 pregnant women with Chlamydia trachomatis infection were randomly assigned 7 
days' treatment with amoxycillin (500 mg three times daily) or erythromycin (500 
mg four times daily). Control cultures were obtained 21 days after treatment, 
during late pregnancy, and from the infant within a week of birth. Treatment was 
judged a failure if any post-treatment culture was positive or if the patient 
had to stop therapy because of severe side-effects. 11 women (5.2%) were lost to 
follow-up. 1 (of 100) amoxycillin-treated women had to stop treatment because of 
severe side-effects compared with 12 (of 99) erythromycin-treated women (p = 
0.002). 1 woman in the amoxycillin group had a positive culture at the 
third-trimester examination. No positive post-treatment culture was found in the 
erythromycin group. Severe gastrointestinal side-effects were more common in 
women who received erythromycin (31 vs 6%, p < 0.001). The overall failure rate 
was therefore 2% in the amoxycillin group and 12% in the erythromycin group (p = 
0.005). These results suggest that amoxycillin is an acceptable alternative to 
erythromycin for C trachomatis infection in pregnant women.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(94)90288-7
PMID: 7968119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 1995 Oct;39(10):2243-7. doi: 
10.1128/AAC.39.10.2243.

In vitro activities of 22 beta-lactam antibiotics against penicillin-resistant 
and penicillin-susceptible viridans group streptococci isolated from blood.

Alcaide F(1), Liñares J, Pallares R, Carratala J, Benitez MA, Gudiol F, Martin 
R.

Author information:
(1)Service of Microbiology, Hospital Prínceps d'Espanya, Ciutat Sanitària i 
Universitària de Bellvitge, Barcelona, Spain.

A total of 410 strains of viridans group streptococci isolated consecutively 
from blood were tested by the microdilution method for in vitro susceptibility 
to 22 beta-lactam antibiotics. One hundred thirty-eight strains (33.6%) were 
resistant to penicillin with a MIC range of 0.25 to 8 micrograms/ml. MICs of all 
beta-lactam agents tested were higher for penicillin-resistant strains than for 
susceptible strains. These antibiotics were classified into three groups 
according to their in vitro activities (MICs at which 50 and 90% of the isolates 
are inhibited). Beta-Lactams of the first group (these included imipenem, 
cefpirome, FK-037, cefditoren, cefotaxime, ceftriaxone, and cefepime) showed 
activities higher than or similar to that of penicillin against 
penicillin-resistant viridans group streptococci. However, 80% of highly 
penicillin-resistant Streptococcus mitis organisms required cefotaxime and 
ceftriaxone MICs of > or = 2 micrograms/ml (range, 2 to 16 micrograms/ml). 
Beta-Lactams of the second group (cefpodoxime, ampicillin, 
amoxicillin-clavulanate, piperacillin, and cefuroxime) showed lower activities 
than penicillin. Finally, antibiotics of the third group (cephalothin, 
oxacillin, ceftazidime, cefixime, cefaclor, cefetamet, cefadroxil, cephalexin, 
and ceftibuten) showed poor in vitro activities. Therefore, some of the 
beta-lactam agents included in the first group could be an acceptable 
alternative in the treatment of serious infections due to strains highly 
resistant to penicillin, although clinical experience is needed.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.39.10.2243
PMCID: PMC162923
PMID: 8619576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Helicobacter. 2013 Dec;18(6):454-8. doi: 10.1111/hel.12086. Epub 2013 Sep 9.

The efficacy of two-week quadruple first-line therapy with bismuth, 
lansoprazole, amoxicillin, clarithromycin on Helicobacter pylori eradication: a 
prospective study.

Ergül B(1), Doğan Z, Sarikaya M, Filik L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Ankara Education and Research Hospital, 
Ankara, Turkey.

AIM: To document the efficacy and tolerability of 14-day 
bismuth-lansoprazole-amoxicillin-clarithromycin (BLAC) regimen for Helicobacter 
pylori (H. pylori) eradication as a first-line therapy.
METHOD: Patients were considered eligible for the study if they underwent upper 
gastrointestinal endoscopy, and H. pylori infection was diagnosed through 
histologic examination of antral and body biopsy samples. Primary end point of 
this study was to evaluate the eradication rate of 14-day BLAC regimen 
therapies. H. pylori eradication was assessed using the 13C urea breath test 
performed 6 weeks after the completion of treatment. All patients were asked to 
fill in a validated questionnaire to report therapy-related side effects. Each 
symptom was graded from absent or present.
RESULTS: Ninety-seven (21 men and 76 women) were enrolled. All the patients 
completed the study. The H. pylori eradication rate was 90.7% (88 of 97 
patients). Side effects were observed in reasonable percentages, and none of the 
patients left the study because of drug side effect.
CONCLUSION: Bismuth-lansoprazole-amoxicillin-clarithromycin regimen as a 2-week 
course achieved an acceptable eradication rate with relatively mild side 
effects.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/hel.12086
PMID: 24011287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1993 Sep 4;123(35):1645-9.

[A trial of modified triple therapy for the eradication of H. pylori in 
recurrent duodenal ulcer].

[Article in German]

Wirth HP(1), Wüst J, Flury R, Zala G, Casanova C, Bertschinger P, Ammann R, 
Münch R.

Author information:
(1)Departement für Innere Medizin, Abteilung für Gastroenterologie, 
Universitätsspital Zürich.

In a prospective trial we examined the efficacy and acceptability of a modified 
triple therapy in H. pylori (HP)-positive patients with recurrent duodenal ulcer 
disease. Oral administration of amoxicillin for two weeks was substituted for 
one single injection of intramuscular depot penicillin (benzathine penicillin 
G). Additionally, patients were given ornidazole 500 mg tid for 14 days and 120 
mg colloidal bismuth sub-citrate qid for 28 days. The patients were investigated 
for H. pylori colonization using a rapid urease test (CLO), histology (H&E-, 
Giemsa stain), culture (including determination of the minimal inhibitory 
concentrations for metronidazole, penicillin G and amoxicillin) and H. pylori 
serology (Cobas Core Anti-H. pylori EIA, F. Hoffmann-La Roche). Control 
endoscopies using the same methods were performed 1 and 6 months after 
eradication therapy. The eradication rate was 50% and the ulcer healing rate 90% 
1 month after therapy. Ulcers recurred in 2/3 of patients with persistent 
infection vs 0/5 of HP-eradicated patients after 6 months. Both successfully 
HP-eradicated patients and patients with treatment failure exhibited comparable 
decreases in mean serum IgG anti-HP concentration within 2 months. 
Discrimination between the two groups and hence identification of the 
eradication success by serology was not possible within a time period of 2 
months. After 6 months, serum IgG anti-HP concentrations in non-HP-eradicated 
patients returned to pre-therapy values, in HP-eradicated patients the 
concentrations further decreased. The above-described modified triple therapy 
against HP cannot be recommended as a standard therapy, mainly because of the 
insufficient eradication effect.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 8211015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Eur Rev Med Pharmacol Sci. 2008 Jul-Aug;12(4):251-6.

Triple therapies plus different probiotics for Helicobacter pylori eradication.

Scaccianoce G(1), Zullo A, Hassan C, Gentili F, Cristofari F, Cardinale V, 
Gigliotti F, Piglionica D, Morini S.

Author information:
(1)Digestive Endoscopy, Umberto I Hospital, Altamura, Bari, Italy.

The Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) cure rate following standard triple 
therapies is decreasing worldwide. Therefore, further approaches aimed to 
improve standard triple therapy efficacy should be attempted. This prospective, 
pilot study aimed to evaluate the therapeutic role of either Lactobacillus 
reuteri (L. reuteri) or a high concentration of probiotics in addition to 
standard triple therapies for H. pylori eradication. The study enrolled 65 
consecutive dyspeptic patients with H. pylori infection. All patients underwent 
upper endoscopy with gastric biopsies. Patients were assigned to receive one of 
the following therapies: (a) standard 7-day triple; (b) the same 7-day triple 
therapy plus L. reuteri supplementation; (c) the same 7-day triple therapy plus 
a probiotic mixture; and d) a 14-day standard triple therapy plus a probiotic 
mixture. H. pylori eradication was checked by using a 13C-urea breath test 
performed 4-6 weeks after treatment. No therapy regimen achieved > 80% 
eradication rate at both intention-to-treat (ITT) and per protocol (PP) 
analyses. Although the 14-day therapy plus a probiotic mixture tended to achieve 
higher eradication rate (71%), no statistically significant difference emerged 
among the different therapy regimens tested (range: 53-71%). The lowest 
incidence of side-effects was observed following the 7-day therapy plus L. 
reuteri (6%) and highest with the 14-day triple therapy plus probiotic mixture 
(33%), although the difference failed to reach the statistically significance. 
In conclusion, our data found that 7-14 days triple therapy with or without 
probiotic supplementation failed to achieved acceptable H. pylori eradication 
rates.

PMID: 18727457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Joint Bone Spine. 2002 Oct;69(5):499-501. doi: 10.1016/s1297-319x(02)00437-2.

Septic arthritis due to Actinomyces naeslundii: report of a case.

Lequerré T(1), Nouvellon M, Kraznowska K, Bruno MC, Vittecoq O, Mejjad O, 
Daragon A, Le Loët X.

Author information:
(1)Rheumatology Department, Rouen University Hospital Charles-Nicolle, Unit 
INSERM 519, IFR 23, 76000 Rouen cedex 76031, France.

In a man with osteoarthritis of the knee, Actinomyces naeslundii septic 
arthritis developed after intra-articular injection of hyaluronate. Actinomyces 
is an anaerobic Gram-positive rod. The outcome was favorable after treatment 
with two antibiotics and arthroscopy. The nature of the organism and its 
location to a joint are unusual features of this case, which illustrates the 
need to search for a septic complication before accepting a diagnosis of 
inflammation related to hyaluronate injection.

DOI: 10.1016/s1297-319x(02)00437-2
PMID: 12477236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Dig Liver Dis. 2007 Nov;39(11):1001-5. doi: 10.1016/j.dld.2007.06.016. Epub 2007 
Sep 21.

Levofloxacin-based triple therapy for Helicobacter pylori re-treatment: role of 
bacterial resistance.

Perna F(1), Zullo A, Ricci C, Hassan C, Morini S, Vaira D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Gastroenterology, University of Bologna, 
Bologna, Italy.

BACKGROUND: First-line Helicobacter pylori therapy fails in more than 20% of 
patients. Quadruple therapy is the suggested second-line therapy, but bismuth 
salts are not anymore available worldwide. This study aimed to assess the 
efficacy of a levofloxacin-amoxycillin triple therapy as a second-line 
treatment, and the role of primary levofloxacin resistance.
METHODS: Forty patients, in whom first treatment with either standard 10-day 
triple or sequential therapy had failed, received 10-day triple therapy with 
rabeprazole (20mg b.d.), levofloxacin (250mg b.d.), and amoxycillin (1g b.d.). 
Cure rates were evaluated by the (13)C-urea breath test. Primary levofloxacin 
resistance was detected by culture.
RESULTS: Bacterial culture was available in 33 (82.5%) out 40 patients, and 
primary levofloxacin resistance was detected in 10 (30.3%) patients. Overall, 33 
of 40 patients accepted to participate in this study, and all returned for 
follow-up after therapy. Compliance to the therapy was safe except 1 patient 
only who stopped earlier the treatment due to side effects (oral candidiasis). 
H. pylori infection was eradicated in 24 patients, accounting for a 72.7% (95% 
CI: 57-88) eradication rate at both intention-to-treat and per protocol 
analyses. The eradication rate was higher in patients harbouring 
levofloxacin-susceptible than resistant strains (75% versus 33.3%; P=0.074).
CONCLUSIONS: The eradication rate achieved by a levofloxacin-based re-treatment 
seems to be decreasing, and its efficacy is reduced in presence of levofloxacin 
resistance.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dld.2007.06.016
PMID: 17889627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Scand J Infect Dis. 1989;21(6):669-73. doi: 10.3109/00365548909021696.

Pharmacokinetic comparison of two models of endocarditis prophylaxis with 
amoxycillin.

Paulsen O(1), Höglund P, Schalén C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, University of Lund, Sweden.

From studies on prophylaxis against experimental streptococcal endocarditis 
using amoxycillin in a single dose, it has been deduced that serum 
concentrations above 0.12 mg/l should be maintained for at least 10 h after 
antibiotic administration. Since concentrations above this level are reported to 
occur following an oral dose of 3 g of amoxycillin, this doses for prophylaxis 
has become widely accepted in USA and the UK, and presently also in Sweden. 
Nevertheless, in individuals who cannot tolerate a high single dose of 
amoxycillin, there is need for an alternative dosage regimen. In the present 
study, we have compared the pharmacokinetics in 12 healthy volunteers, of a 
single dose of 3 g of amoxycillin with those of 1 g as single dose or combined 
with 1 g of probenecid. The combination resulted in an AUC twice as large as 
that achieved after 1 g of amoxycillin, and was slightly, but not significantly, 
larger than that after 3 g. However, amoxycillin concentrations above 0.12 mg/l 
were sustained for almost 14 h with the combination as compared to 10.4 hours 
following 3 g of amoxycillin only (p less than 0.001). Thus, the combination 
should be a convenient alternative in patients unable to tolerate a higher oral 
dose of amoxycillin, and in situations when an antibacterial effect of longer 
duration is desired.

DOI: 10.3109/00365548909021696
PMID: 2617209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Zhonghua Gan Zang Bing Za Zhi. 2000 Apr;8(2):94-5.

[Effect of anti-endotoxin therapy on vaso-active substances in decompensated 
liver cirrhosis].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhuang L(1), Ma Z, Liu T.

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterology department of the first hospital affiliated to Harbin 
Medical University. Harbin 150001, China.

OBJECTIVE: To study the anti-endotoxin therapy on the plasma levels of nitric 
oxide, prostacyclin, tumor necrosis factor-alpha in patients with liver 
cirrhosis after hepatitis.
METHODS: Thirty patients with decompensated liver cirrhosis accepted 
anti-endotoxin therapy with oral Amoxycillin and Smedta for 2 weeks. Plasma 
levels of endotoxin, nitric oxide, prostacyclin and tumor necrosis factor-alpha 
were detected before and after therapy in study group and control group, 
respectively. The relationship between endotoxin and vasoactive substances and 
between the four substances and the status of patients were analyzed.
RESULTS: The four substances were all increased significantly (P<0.01) in 
patients with liver cirrhosis compared with control group and decreased 
obviously after treatment for 2 weeks (endotoxin from 0.546X10(21) U/L to 0. 
347X10(21) U/L, no from 56.498 mumol/L to 31.256 mumol/L, 6-keto-PGF1 alpha from 
716.964 ng/L to 539.867ng/L, and TNF-alpha from 3.090 mug/L to 1.750 mug/L 
(P<0.01).
CONCLUSION: The plasma levels of nitric oxide, prostacyclin and tumor necrosis 
factor-alpha increased because of endotoxemia. Amoxycillin and Smecta can clear 
endotoxin out effectively.

PMID: 10861114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Clin Pediatr (Phila). 1982 Nov;21(11):668-71. doi: 10.1177/000992288202101105.

Effect of use of a measured dispensing device on oral antibiotic compliance.

Ellison RS, Altemeier WA.

The substitution of a syringe in place of a teaspoon for the delivery of oral 
medications has become routine in some pediatric practices for reasons that are 
not clear. Although a syringe would measure dosages more accurately, most oral 
medications have a broad acceptable dose range. A possible advantage of syringes 
is that parents who receive these may be more impressed with the importance of 
treatment than those prescribed medications by teaspoon. To test this 
hypothesis, 72 patients below 24 months of age with otitis media were randomly 
divided into a group that received a prescription indicating amoxicillin should 
be given by teaspoon and a group that received a labeled syringe for this 
purpose. The qualitative presence of the antibiotic in urine at seven-day 
follow-up visit was 56 per cent among the teaspoon users and 67 per cent among 
syringe users, while return rates for one week appointments were 51 per cent and 
32 per cent, respectively. Neither difference was significant. Use of a measured 
oral dispensing syringe did not improve compliance in administration of 
medication or return for follow-up and therefore, was judged not to be cost 
effective.

DOI: 10.1177/000992288202101105
PMID: 7127989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Gut. 2004 Jan;53(1):34-7. doi: 10.1136/gut.53.1.34.

Long term outcome of patients with gastric marginal zone B cell lymphoma of 
mucosa associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) following exclusive Helicobacter pylori 
eradication therapy: experience from a large prospective series.

Fischbach W(1), Goebeler-Kolve ME, Dragosics B, Greiner A, Stolte M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Klinikum Aschaffenburg, Aschaffenburg, 
Germany. wolfgang.fischbach@klinikum-aschaffenburg.de

BACKGROUND: Helicobacter pylori plays a decisive role in the pathogenesis of 
gastric marginal zone B cell lymphoma of mucosa associated lymphoid tissue 
(MALT), and eradication therapy has become a widely accepted initial treatment 
of stage I disease.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the long term outcome of patients undergoing exclusive H 
pylori eradication therapy.
DESIGN: A prospective series of patients with newly diagnosed marginal zone B 
cell lymphoma of MALT.
SETTING: Multicentre study in Germany and Austria.
PATIENTS: Ninety five patients; 90 of these (five lost to follow up) with a mean 
age of 54.3 (27-85) years were followed up for at least 12 months.
INTERVENTION: Complete staging work up revealing stage I disease and H pylori 
infection. Patients received triple therapy (OMC: omeprazole 20 mg twice daily, 
metronidazole 400 mg twice daily, and clarithromycin 250 mg twice daily; or OAC: 
omeprazole 20 mg twice daily, amoxycillin 1000 mg twice daily, and 
clarithromycin 500 twice daily) for one week.
RESULTS: Median follow up was 44.6 (12-89) months. H pylori was successfully 
eradicated in 88 patients (98%); in two patients eradication therapy failed. 
Long term outcome was characterised by complete regression of lymphoma in 56 
patients (62%), minimal residual disease in 17 patients (18%), partial remission 
in 11 patients (12%), no change in four patients (4%), and progressive disease 
in two patients (2%). Four patients with complete remission relapsed after 6, 8, 
8, and 15 months, one revealing reinfection by H pylori. Regression rate was 
higher in stage I1 disease compared with stage I2, as diagnosed by endoscopic 
ultrasound.
CONCLUSION: The majority of patients with low grade gastric MALT lymphoma 
treated by exclusive H pylori eradication have a favourable long term outcome, 
offering a real chance of cure.

DOI: 10.1136/gut.53.1.34
PMCID: PMC1773912
PMID: 14684573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Coll Antropol. 2013 Mar;37(1):281-4.

Acute oxcarbazepine-induced hepatotoxicity in a patient susceptible to 
developing drug-induced liver injury.

Planjar-Prvan M(1), Bielen A, Sruk A, Marusić M, Bielen I.

Author information:
(1)University of Zagreb, "Sveti Duh" University Hospital, University Department 
of Neurology, Zagreb, Croatia. mplanjarprvan@net.hr

Oxcarbazepine (OXC) is generally accepted as a drug without risk of severe 
drug-induced hepatotoxicity, but according to recently reported 
pharmacovigilance data this statement has been challenged. However, in the 
literature there have been no reports of acute OXC-induced hepatotoxicity 
without systemic manifestations of Drug Rash with Eosinophilia and Systemic 
Symptoms (DRESS) syndrome. We present a female with seizures one month after 
delivery who had borderline elevated liver enzymes prior to the initiation of 
OXC treatment. Two weeks after introducing OXC, highly elevated liver enzymes 
were found. After discontinuation of OXC the enzymes continued to rise for 
another week, and afterward gradually decreased. The causal relationship with 
OXC intake was determined to be highly probable. Two years later, the transitory 
elevation of liver enzymes was observed during the treatment of acute 
tonsilopharingitis with amoxicillin + clavulanic acid. The repeated elevation of 
liver enzymes related to use of different drugs might indicate patients 
susceptibility for drug induced liver injuries. We suggest that monitoring of 
liver function tests would be clinically rational for early detection of acute 
OXC-induced liver hepatotoxicity in the patients with clinical and/or laboratory 
features which might be interpreted as possible risk factors of the increased 
susceptibility to drug induced liver injuries.

PMID: 23697284 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Rev Gastroenterol Peru. 2017 Jul-Sep;37(3):225-230.

[New simplified regimen for Helicobacter pylori eradication achieves high 
effectiveness. Prospective study in a private clinic in Lima, Peru].

[Article in Spanish]

Barreda Costa CS(1), Barriga Briceño JA(2), Piccini Larco JR(1).

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Gastroenterología, Clínica Ricardo Palma. Lima, Perú.
(2)Servicio de Gastroenterología, Clínica Ricardo Palma. Lima, Perú; Facultad de 
Medicina, Universidad Peruana Cayetano Heredia. Lima, Perú.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the effectiveness of two new therapeutic regimes for 
Helicobacter pylori versus triple therapy that includes a proton pump inhibitor, 
amoxicillin and clarithromycin.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: prospective study, non-randomized, in a private Hospital 
in Lima, Peru. Patients with biopsy and/or rapid ureasa test proven Helicobacter 
pylori infection received one of the three therapeutic regimens and were 
followed with a urea breath test 1 to 6 months upon completion of therapy.
RESULTS: Triple therapy achieved eradication in 49/68 of cases (71.2%); 
quadruple therapy (doxycycline + metronidazole + bismuth + esomeprazole) in 
52/62 (83.9%), and the simplified regimen with doxycycline + furazolidone + 
bismuth, obtained success in 79/83 of cases (95.2%). Statistically significant 
difference with p<0.005 and p<0.05 respectively.
CONCLUSION: Triple therapy against Hp does not achieve acceptable effectiveness 
in our institution. This highlights the need to look for new therapeutic 
options, being the simplified regime (doxycycline, furazolidone and bismuth) 
used in the current study a good option, requiring further studies for 
validation.

PMID: 29093585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Ital J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 1997 Dec;29(6):501-6.

Dual therapy with high or low doses of omeprazole does not achieve an acceptable 
rate of Helicobacter pylori eradication in duodenal ulcer patients. A 
multicentre randomized long-term detailed study.

Maconi G(1), Bordi C, Cesana B, Pilato FP, Damilano I, Franceschi M, Annibale B.

Author information:
(1)Gastrointestinal Unit, L. Sacco University Hospital, Milan, Italy.

Comment in
    Ital J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 1997 Dec;29(6):506-8.

BACKGROUND: It has been reported that dual therapy with high doses of omeprazole 
and amoxycillin proves efficient for Helicobacter pylori eradication.
AIM: To compare the efficacy, safety and tolerability of eradicating regimens 
with omeprazole/amoxycillin.
METHODS: In this randomized multicentre study, 267 duodenal ulcer patients were 
treated for 2 weeks with omeprazole 40 bid (Group A) or 20 mg bid (Group B), 
respectively, and with amoxycillin 0.5 g. qid followed by 4 weeks of 20 mg 
omeprazole om. Helicobacter pylori status was assessed by both histology and 
urease test in the antrum and the corpus. The patients were then followed-up for 
9 months.
RESULTS: Helicobacter pylori infection was cured in 62.9% of group A (95% CI: 
53.8-71.4) and in 44.8% of group B (95% CI: 35.6-54.3; p = 0.007). Healing was 
achieved in 91.9% of patients in group A (95% CI:85.7-96.1), and in 87.9% of 
patients in group B (95% CI:80.6-93.2). The estimated probability of being in 
ulcer remission for cured patients was 0.95 (95% CI: 0.90-0.99) and for the not 
cured was 0.41 (95% CI: 0.24-0.59; p = 0.0001). However, between the two 
treatment groups no significant differences in symptom relief or ulcer 
recurrence were observed. Both regimens were well tolerated with minor 
side-effects occurring likewise within the two groups. At two months in cured 
patients antral histology revealed a total (group A + B) prevalence of 13.7% of 
active chronic gastritis.
CONCLUSIONS: This long-term, large-size study clearly indicates that dual 
therapy does not represent a truly effective eradication therapy and this regime 
cannot be recommended.

PMID: 9513822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Br J Gen Pract. 1996 Jun;46(407):357-60.

Comparison of amoxycillin and clarithromycin as initial treatment of 
community-acquired lower respiratory tract infections.

MacFarlane JT(1), Prewitt J, Gard P, Guion A.

Author information:
(1)City Hospital, Nottingham.

BACKGROUND: Numerous new oral antibiotics have been produced over the last few 
years with the aims of improving treatment for lower respiratory tract 
infections.
AIM: The aim of the study was to compare the efficacy of an established drug, 
amoxycillin, with a new macrolide, clarithromycin, for initial treatment of 
adults with community-acquired lower respiratory tract infection.
METHOD: Consecutive adults fulfilling a standard definition of lower respiratory 
tract infection presenting to 14 general practitioners in two neighbouring 
practices were allocated to antibiotic therapy in a random, single-blind manner. 
The outcome of treatment was assessed by the time taken by the patient to return 
to normal activities or work, the speed of resolution of symptoms, number of 
repeat consultations and side effects.
RESULTS: The profile of the 221 patients receiving amoxycillin was very similar 
to that of the 221 receiving clarithromycin. The two groups did not differ 
greatly in requirement to visit the general practitioner again within either 4 
weeks (20% amoxycillin group; 25% clarithromycin group) or 3 months (31% 
compared with 36%) of the original infection, in time taken to return to normal 
activities (6 days for group taking amoxycillin; 5 days for those on 
clarithromycin) or work (5 days for both groups), or in speed of resolution of 
symptoms. Compliance was good and the side-effects reported were similar for 
both groups. No increase in gastrointestinal complaints was noted for patients 
taking the macrolide.
CONCLUSION: Amoxycillin and clarithromycin appear to be equally effective as 
initial therapy and to be tolerated in similar ways. Use of the newer drug 
appears to have no advantages over use of the accepted standard treatment.

PMCID: PMC1239668
PMID: 8983255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Chest. 1978 Aug;74(2):224-5. doi: 10.1378/chest.74.2.224.

Bacterial endocarditis on a prosthetic valve. Oral treatment with amoxicillin.

Lidji M, Rubinstein E, Samra H.

A patient with endocarditis due to Streptococcus faecalis on an aortic valvular 
prosthesis was successfully treated using large oral doses of amoxicillin 
concurrently with intramuscular administration of streptomycin. Oral therapy was 
employed because of a persistent reaction to intravenously administered 
antibiotics. Oral therapy for bacterial endocarditis occurring on an artificial 
valve may be attempted as a last resort when all other accepted therapeutic 
measures have failed.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.74.2.224
PMID: 98296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. J Antimicrob Chemother. 1983 Feb;11(2):109-13. doi: 10.1093/jac/11.2.109.

A simple oral antimicrobial regimen effective in severe chronic bronchial 
suppuration associated with culturable Haemophilus influenzae.

Cole PJ, Roberts DE, Davies SF, Knight RK.

Three grams of amoxycillin administered twice daily for seven days, as an oral 
powder (Amoxil 3G sachets, Bencard) dispersed in water, to 17 patients with 
bronchiectasis resulted in striking clinical, spirometric and bacteriological 
improvement in 11 of 12 patients who were producing purulent sputum from which 
Haemophilus influenzae was cultured by a selective bacteriological technique 
(Roberts & Cole, 1980). In the five patients from whose sputum this organism 
could not be cultured, and in one from whom it could, there was no improvement. 
Untoward effects were limited to nausea in one patient and acceptability of the 
regimen by the remaining patients was unanimous. There was no evidence of 
accumulation of the drug in serum or sputum. The rapidity of effect and oral 
form of the treatment suggest that it may provide a simple out-patient regimen 
for chronic bronchial sepsis and severe purulent exacerbations of chronic 
bronchitis from which H. influenzae can be cultured.

DOI: 10.1093/jac/11.2.109
PMID: 6601102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Acta Gastroenterol Belg. 2009 Apr-Jun;72(2):222-4.

Effect of addition of vitamin C to clarithromycin-amoxicillin-omeprazol triple 
regimen on Helicobacter pylori eradication.

Kaboli SA(1), Zojaji H, Mirsattari D, Talaie R, Derakhshan F, Zali MR, 
Sheikhvatan M.

Author information:
(1)Research Center for Gastroenterology and Liver disease, Shaheed Beheshti 
University of Tehran, Tehran, Iran. swt_f@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: The use of vitamin C as a supplement with the common regimen for 
eradication of Helicobacter pylori infection is the subject of ongoing 
controversy. We conducted a prospective controlled study with the aim of testing 
whether the vitamin C supplement to the therapy includes lower dosage of 
clarithromycin could have an acceptable influence on Helicobacter pylori 
eradication in comparison with routine anti-Helicobacter pylori regimen.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Two hundred and fourteen consecutive patients with the 
verification of Helicobacter pylori infection via positive Rapid Urease Test 
(RUT) and histology results were included and divided into two therapy groups: 
1) a group without vitamin C (n = 100) that were administered 20 mg omeprazol, 1 
g amoxicillin, and 500 mg clarithromycin twice daily for 2 weeks and 2) a 
triple-plus-vitamin C group (n = 114) that was administered 20 mg omeprazol, 1 g 
amoxicillin, 250 mg clarithromycin plus 250 mg vitamin C twice daily for 2 
weeks. Four weeks after the completion of therapy, each patient was scheduled 
for urea breath test to assess the success of Helicobacter pylori eradication.
RESULTS: Similar eradication of Helicobacter pylori was found between the 
triple-only group with 500 mg of clarithromycin and the triple with 250 mg of 
clarithromycin-plus vitamin C group (89% versus 86.8%, P = 0.623).
CONCLUSIONS: Adding vitamin C might reduce the needed dosage of clarithromycin 
for eradication of Helicobacter pylori.

PMID: 19637777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. J Fam Pract. 1997 Jun;44(6):545-55.

Evaluation of the dyspeptic patient: a cost-utility study.

Ebell MH(1), Warbasse L, Brenner C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, Wayne State University, Detroit, Michigan, 
USA. ebell@pilot.msu.edu

Erratum in
    J Fam Pract 1997 Aug;45(2):169.

Comment in
    J Fam Pract. 1997 Jun;44(6):541-2.

BACKGROUND: Traditionally, patients presenting with uncomplicated dyspepsia have 
been managed using empiric antisecretory therapy, followed by endoscopy in the 
event of persistent symptoms or complication. Since Helicobacter pylori is now 
accepted as an important and potentially reversible cause of ulcer disease, it 
is important to reevaluate the management of dyspepsia. The goal of this study 
is to evaluate seven outpatient strategies for the management of dyspeptic 
patients using a cost-utility analysis.
METHODS: The study design was that of a cost-utility analysis. The model assumes 
that an adult patient with signs of dyspepsia but no signs of complication 
presents to the outpatient office of a primary care physician. Seven strategies 
are modeled: empiric antisecretory therapy; empiric H pylori eradication using 
oral omeprazole (20 mg [corrected] twice daily), clarithromycin (500 mg twice 
daily), and amoxicillin (1000 mg twice daily); use of either upper endoscopy, an 
upper gastrointestinal barium study (an upper GI), or the serum titer for H 
pylori as a diagnostic test to identify patients for H pylori eradication; or 
use of an initial diagnostic test followed by the serum titer for H pylori. The 
primary outcome was the cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) for each 
strategy for a 1-year period from presentation; secondary outcomes included the 
probability of symptomatic ulcer recurrence, cost per ulcer cure, and mortality.
RESULTS: Three strategies were similarly cost-effective: empiric H pylori 
eradication ($1198 per QALY), use of a serum H pylori titer as an initial 
diagnostic test ($1214 per QALY), and empiric antisecretory therapy ($1288 per 
QALY). Empiric antisecretory therapy, however, was associated with significantly 
more symptomatic ulcer recurrences and deaths than any other strategy.
CONCLUSIONS: This cost-utility analysis suggests that two strategies are 
reasonable for patients presenting with dyspepsia: (1) empiric H pylori 
eradication and (2) use of a serum H pylori titer to identify patients who might 
benefit from H pylori eradication. The latter strategy may be preferable because 
it is less likely to lead to antibiotic resistance. Strategies utilizing an 
upper GI or upper endoscopy (either with or without serum H pylori titer) or 
empiric antisecretory therapy do not improve outcomes and are associated with 
greater cost, morbidity, and/or mortality.

PMID: 9191627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. J Vet Pharmacol Ther. 2009 Apr;32(2):137-45. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2885.2008.01012.x.

Transsplenic portal catheterization combined with a jugular double-lumen 
catheter for pharmacokinetic and presystemic metabolization studies in pigs.

Gasthuys F(1), De Boever S, Schauvliege S, Reyns T, Levet T, Cornillie P, 
Casteleyn C, De Backer P, Croubels S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery and Anaesthesiology of Domestic Animals, Ghent 
University, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Merelbeke, Belgium. 
frank.gasthuys@UGent.be

The reliability of a silicone double-lumen catheter implanted into the external 
jugular vein and tunnelled towards the neck region was investigated in eight 
pigs. Surgery was uneventful without interference with the normal homoeostasis 
during 8 days. After injection of amoxicillin/clavulanic acid through the distal 
port of the catheter, analysis of drug components in the simultaneous blood 
samples obtained by the proximal port and a Venoject system were comparable in 
one pig. Histological control of the catheterized jugular veins pointed to an 
acceptable tissue reaction while bacteriological examination of the tip of the 
catheters was negative in only three animals. A moulding of the intestinal veins 
was made in a pig cadaver to determine the optimal length of insertion of a 
silicone portal catheter from the splenic vein towards the portal vein. Surgery 
was straightforward in four pigs whereby the catheter was exteriorized towards 
the back region. No complications were encountered during and after surgery for 
9 days. The technique of a double-lumen catheter placed into the jugular vein 
and a transsplenic portal catheter is a useful tool for the study of the 
pharmacokinetics and also the first-pass effect of drugs in experimental pigs.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2885.2008.01012.x
PMID: 19290943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. S Afr Med J. 1988 Jun 18;73(12):709-10.

High-dose oral amoxycillin in the treatment of infective endocarditis.

Chetty S(1), Mitha AS.

Author information:
(1)Cardiac Unit, Wentworth Hospital.

Oral antibiotic therapy for infective endocarditis is not yet widely accepted. A 
study was undertaken to assess the efficacy of oral amoxycillin in this 
condition. Fifteen patients were treated with high-dose oral amoxycillin for 6 
weeks. Twelve responded to treatment and remain well at 3 years. There were 3 
deaths--1 at day 7 due to sudden aortic cusp rupture, and 2 late deaths due to 
pulmonary and cerebral embolism respectively. There was 1 relapse of 
streptococcal prosthetic valve endocarditis 8 weeks after oral treatment, but 
this responded to conventional intravenous therapy. Oral amoxycillin is 
effective in uncomplicated streptococcal endocarditis, and should not be used 
with prosthetic valve infections.

PMID: 3381154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Pharmacoepidemiol Drug Saf. 2005 Jun;14(6):393-401. doi: 10.1002/pds.1085.

An overview of adverse events reported by participants in CDC's anthrax vaccine 
and antimicrobial availability program.

Martin SW(1), Tierney BC, Aranas A, Rosenstein NE, Franzke LH, Apicella L, 
Marano N, McNeil MM.

Author information:
(1)Anthrax Vaccine Safety Team, Epidemiology and Surveillance Division, National 
Immunization Program, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA 
30333, USA. ZMT0@CDC.GOV

Comment in
    Pharmacoepidemiol Drug Saf. 2005 Jun;14(6):389-91. doi: 10.1002/pds.1086.

PURPOSE: The CDC's Anthrax Vaccine and Antibiotic Availability Program was 
implemented under an Investigational New Drug (IND) application to provide 
additional post-exposure prophylaxis for individuals potentially exposed to 
Bacillus anthracis in the fall of 2001. Participants were provided with two 
options: (1) 40 additional days of antimicrobial prophylaxis (i.e., 
ciprofloxacin, doxycycline, or amoxicillin); or (2) 40 additional days of 
antimicrobial prophylaxis plus three doses of anthrax vaccine adsorbed (AVA).
METHODS: Participants were monitored for adverse events (AEs). Participants were 
asked to complete 2-week AE diaries for 6 weeks post-enrollment, and 
approximately 2 months after enrollment, active surveillance was conducted 
through telephone interviews with 1113 (64%) participants.
RESULTS: A total of 1727 of approximately 10 000 previously prophylaxed persons 
enrolled to receive 40 additional days of antibiotics. Of these, 199 opted at 
enrollment to receive three doses of AVA in addition to the additional 40 days 
of antibiotic. Overall, 28% of participants reported at least one AE on their 
diaries. Results varied by surveillance mechanism, the diary data indicated 
differences in the proportion reporting AEs between participants receiving 
antibiotic only and participants receiving antibiotic and AVA. However, during 
the active 2-month telephone follow-up, the rates of AEs reported for both the 
antibiotic only and antibiotic plus AVA treatment regimens were similar. 
Additionally, ciprofloxacin and doxycycline had similar AE profiles, with only 
rigors reported significantly more often among ciprofloxacin recipients.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, the rates of AEs experienced by all participants were 
acceptable given the seriousness of potential B. anthracis exposure.

DOI: 10.1002/pds.1085
PMID: 15717323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2000 May;14(5):603-9. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-2036.2000.00744.x.

A meta-analysis of short versus long therapy with a proton pump inhibitor, 
clarithromycin and either metronidazole or amoxycillin for treating Helicobacter 
pylori infection.

Calvet X(1), García N, López T, Gisbert JP, Gené E, Roque M.

Author information:
(1)Serveis de Medicina & Cirurgia i Epidemiologia Clínica, Corporació Sanitària 
Parc Taulí, Sabadell, Spain. xcalvet@cspt.es

BACKGROUND: Although triple therapies with a proton pump inhibitor, 
clarithromycin and either amoxycillin or metronidazole are the most widely 
accepted treatment for Helicobacter pylori infection, there is no consensus on 
how long treatment should be maintained for.
AIM: To evaluate whether increasing the length of triple therapies beyond 7 days 
improves treatment efficacy.
METHODS: An extensive search of the literature was performed. Reports of 
randomized trials comparing different lengths of therapy were selected. Short 
(7-day) vs. long (10/14-day) therapies were compared, and three-way comparison 
of 7-day vs. 10-day, 10-day vs. 14-day and 7-day vs. 14-day therapies was 
performed. Meta-analysis was conducted using conventional shareware (Review 
Manager 4.0). The Peto Odds Ratio using a fixed model analysis was calculated 
for each comparison.
RESULTS: Thirteen studies were identified. Pooled 10- to 14-day therapies 
achieved better results than 7-day schedules. In head-to-head comparisons, only 
14-day therapies were significantly better than 7-day treatments. Improvement in 
cure rates ranged from 7 to 9%. Comparisons of 7-day vs. 10-day and 10-day vs. 
14-day also showed a non-significant trend towards better cure rates with longer 
therapies.
CONCLUSIONS: Fourteen-day, proton pump inhibitor-based triple therapy achieves 
better results than 7-day schedules. Additional data are necessary to evaluate 
10-day therapies.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2036.2000.00744.x
PMID: 10792124 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Enferm Infecc Microbiol Clin. 1998 Dec;16(10):471-3.

[Eradication of Helicobacter pylori by triple therapy in ulcerous patients: the 
role of endoscopy and antibiotic sensitivity].

[Article in Spanish]

Garrido A(1), Lepe JA, Guerrero FJ, Palomo S.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Digestivo, Hospital General de Riotinto, Huelva.

BACKGROUND: A protocol was conducted to evaluate the compliance and results of 
Helicobacter pylori infection treatment in patients with ulcer disease. To know 
the metronidazole, clarithromycin and amoxicillin activities of Helicobacter 
pylori strains from such patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: 35 patients with ulcer disease (27 duodenal ulcer and 8 
gastric ulcer) were studied. Diagnosis of Helicobacter pylori infection was 
performed by urease test and culture of mucosal gastric samples from patients 
undergoing endoscopy. The patients received the following treatment during 7 
days: omeprazole (20 mg bid), clarithromycin (500 mg bid) and amoxicillin (1 g 
bid), OCA x 7. Susceptibility was determined by E-test system on 
Wilkins-Chalgren blood agar and read after 5 days.
RESULTS: 22/24 patients who had completed the protocol design eradicated 
Helicobacter pylori (91.7%), 11 patients (31.4%) refused second endoscopy to 
verify control of eradication. After treatment 10 patients presented with 
pyrosis "de novo" (28%). The overall metronidazol, claritromycin and amoxicillin 
resistance rate was 50%, 1.5% and 0% respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: OCA x 7 treatment obtains a eradication rate higher than 90% in our 
patients with ulcer disease, despite smoking habit, but with a significative 
number of patients presenting pyrosis after treatment. We recommend a 
non-endoscopy method to verify eradication rate, because of its poor acceptance. 
3. Metronidazol resistance rate is high in our series but clarithromycin 
susceptibility is maintained.

PMID: 9918994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Orv Hetil. 2004 Oct 3;145(40):2035-41.

[Eradication of Helicobacter pylori infection in Europe: a meta-analysis based 
on congress abstracts, 1997-2002].

[Article in Hungarian]

Buzás GM(1), Józan J.

Author information:
(1)Ferencvárosi Egészségügyi Szolgálat, Gasztroenterológia. 
drgybuzas@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: Meta-analyses evaluated several aspects of Helicobacter pylori 
eradication based on the randomised controlled trials.
AIM: to perform a meta-analysis of the papers presented at the European 
Helicobacter Pylori Study Group and United European Gastroenterology Week 
meetings from 1997 to 2002.
METHODS: Abstracts dealing with the eradication of Helicobacter pylori have been 
reviewed and the randomised, controlled studies from European countries were 
included. The studies were classified into groups based on eradication 
schedules, antibiotics used and country of provenience. The pooled eradication 
rates were calculated and the differences were assessed by multiple variance 
analysis.
RESULTS: One-hundred and two studies were accepted comprising 25,644 cases and 
398 treatment arms. The eradication rate of proton pump inhibitor-based first 
line triple therapies was 80.4% (confidence interval: 78.9-81.8); no difference 
was observed between the five proton pump inhibitors (p > 0.05). Ranitidine 
bismuth citrate based regimens were efficient in 79.9% (75.7-84.0) (p = 0.95 vs 
PPI). H2 blockers-based therapies achieved 68.6% (59.0-78.1) (p = 0.0007 vs 
proton pump inhibitor and p = 0.005 vs ranitidine bismuth citrate-based 
regimens). Proton pump inhibitor-based double combinations were efficient in 
47.1 (31.9-62.4) (p = 0.001 vs triple regimens). 
Clarithromycin+amoxicillin/nitroimidazole combinations achieved rates of 79.6% 
and 84.1%, respectively, while amoxicillin-nitroimidazole regimens were less 
efficient (72.5%, 66.6-78.5) (p = 0.006). The pooled eradication rate of 
second-line triple regimens was 75.5% (69.9-86.4)(p = 0.08 vs primary 
treatment). Quadruple therapies were successful in 81.1% (76.6-85.6) of cases as 
first-line and 73.8% (61.2-86.4) as second-line regimens (p = 0.77 and p = 0.02 
vs triple regimens). The pooled eradication rates varied from 58% to 92% in the 
European countries.
CONCLUSIONS: The pooled eradication rate of the primary proton pump 
inhibitor/ranitidine bismuth citrate-based triple regimens are comparable with 
the results of meta-analyses. H2 blocker-based triple and proton pump 
inhibitor-based double regimens are of lower efficacy. Quadruple regimens were 
not better than triple therapies. The eradication rates per country varied, 
approaching 80% in most places. The results confirm in part post-hoc the 
validity of the Maastricht consensus recommendations.

PMID: 15559530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Prescrire Int. 2003 Oct;12(67):184-9.

Acute otitis media in children: amoxicillin remains the standard antibiotic, but 
justified in certain situations only.

[No authors listed]

(1) The best-assessed antibacterial agents in otitis are penicillin V and 
amoxicillin. No other antibacterial agents are any more effective in clinical 
trials. (2) In France, amoxicillin seems the best choice because it is still 
active against pneumococci with diminished sensitivity to penicillin. Also, 
amoxicillin causes very few serious adverse effects. (3) There is no firm 
evidence that clavulanic acid makes amoxicillin any more effective. In fact the 
combination of amoxicillin + clavulanic acid causes more gastrointestinal 
adverse effects (including potentially severe diarrhoea) than any other 
antibacterial agent. (4) For patients who are allergic to penicillin, a 
macrolide such as erythromycin, or cotrimoxazole, appear to be acceptable 
first-line alternatives. (5) According to a reliable randomised trial, delaying 
the decision about antibacterial treatment by 72 hours in children with acute 
otitis media does no harm. If the decision is delayed, three quarters of 
children avoid antibacterial therapy altogether. (6) Patients get no extra 
benefit from extending treatment beyond 5 to 7 days. (7) Prolonged treatment, 
and the use of low doses are risk factors for subsequent carriage of resistant 
bacteria. (8) There are no comparative trials of antibacterial agents in 
children at high risk of severe or complicated disease including infants under 3 
months old, children with immunosuppression, and those with high fever.

PMID: 14619906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. Se Pu. 2011 Nov;29(11):1128-32.

[Determination of penicillin intermediate and three penicillins in milk by high 
performance capillary electrophoresis].

[Article in Chinese]

Tian C(1), Tan H, Gao L, Shen H, Qi K.

Author information:
(1)College of Tea & Food Science and Technology, Anhui Agricultural University, 
Hefei 230036, China.

A high performance capillary electrophoresis (HPCE) method was developed for the 
simultaneous determination of penicillin intermediate and penicillins in milk, 
including 6-amino-penicillanic acid (6-APA), penicillin G (PEN), ampicillin 
(AMP) and amoxicillin (AMO). The main parameters including the ion concentration 
and pH value of running buffer, separation voltage and column temperature were 
optimized systematically by orthogonal test. The four penicillins (PENs) were 
baseline separated within 4.5 min with the running buffer of 40 mmol/L potassium 
dihydrogen phosphate-20 mmol/L borax solution (pH 7.8), separation voltage of 28 
kV and column temperature of 30 degrees C. The calibration curves showed good 
linearity in the range of 1.56 - 100 mg/L, and the correlation coefficients (r2) 
were between 0.9979 and 0.9998. The average recoveries at three spiked levels 
were in the range of 84.91% - 96.72% with acceptable relative standard 
deviations (RSDs) of 1.11% - 9.11%. The method is simple, fast, accurate and 
suitable for the determination of penicillins in real samples.

PMID: 22393704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. J Clin Microbiol. 1990 Mar;28(3):430-4. doi: 10.1128/jcm.28.3.430-434.1990.

Use of Haemophilus test medium for broth microdilution antimicrobial 
susceptibility testing of Streptococcus pneumoniae.

Jorgensen JH(1), Maher LA, Howell AW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Texas Health Science Center, San 
Antonio 78284.

A recently described medium (Haemophilus test medium [HTM]) for antimicrobial 
susceptibility testing of Haemophilus influenzae was evaluated in this study for 
broth microdilution testing of Streptococcus pneumoniae. A total of 137 clinical 
isolates was tested against 11 antimicrobial agents, using Mueller-Hinton broth 
supplemented with 3% lysed horse blood in parallel with HTM. Inocula of 5 X 
10(5) CFU/ml and incubation for 20 to 24 h were used with both media. All 
isolates of S. pneumoniae produced acceptable growth in both media, and MICs 
determined in HTM agreed closely with those determined in lysed horse blood. 
Drugs which provided a MIC within 1 log2 concentration difference in both media 
included penicillin (100%), ampicillin (98.0%), amoxicillin-clavulanate (100%), 
ampicillin-sulbactam (100%), cephalexin (98.9%), cefaclor (96.8%), cefuroxime 
(99.0%), chloramphenicol (96.2%), tetracycline (96.2%), and erythromycin (100%). 
HTM MICs with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole were 1 to 2 log2 concentration 
increments higher in 92.0% of isolates than MICs determined in lysed horse 
blood. Based on the results of this study, HTM appears to represent a promising 
alternative medium for broth microdilution susceptibility testing of S. 
pneumoniae.

DOI: 10.1128/jcm.28.3.430-434.1990
PMCID: PMC269637
PMID: 2324270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. J Clin Hosp Pharm. 1981 Dec;6(4):277-83. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2710.1981.tb01004.x.

Record-linked audit of drug utilization data in a hospital: antimicrobial use on 
a urology ward.

Hekster YA, Friesen WT, Boerema JB.

Antimicrobial drug utilization patterns were studied on a urology ward with a 
view to establishing base-line data and subsequently determining drug usage data 
during the implementation of antimicrobial prescribing guidelines. Methods of 
data collection, storage and interpretation are described. The results of 
therapeutic audit of the use of antimicrobial agents over a period of time 
during which discussion, constitution and acceptance of guidelines took place, 
are described. The effectiveness of a multidisciplinary approach in 
rationalizing drug prescribing and the effects of intensive monitoring on 
prescribing patterns are illustrated.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2710.1981.tb01004.x
PMID: 7338559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Aust Vet J. 1997 Nov;75(11):818-21. doi: 10.1111/j.1751-0813.1997.tb15661.x.

Amoxycillin as an alternative to dihydrostreptomycin sulphate for treating 
cattle infected with Leptospira borgpetersenii serovar hardjo.

Smith CR(1), Corney BG, McGowan MR, McClintock CS, Ward W, Ketterer PJ.

Author information:
(1)Dayboro Veterinary Surgery, School of Veterinary Science, University of 
Queensland.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the effect of amoxycillin treatment on urinary excretion of 
leptospires from cattle infected with Leptospira borgpetersenii serovar hardjo.
DESIGN: A chemotherapy trial with controls.
PROCEDURE: Fourteen heifers serologically negative to L hardjo were inoculated 
with L hardjo via the conjunctival route and assessed for evidence of infection 
by serological, fluorescent antibody and microbiological tests. Two injections 
(48 h apart) of amoxycillin at a dose of 15 mg/kg were administered 
intramuscularly to seven heifers 6.5 weeks after infection; the remaining 
heifers acted as untreated controls. Later, these seven control group heifers 
were treated with a single dose of amoxycillin (15 mg/kg). Samples of urine were 
collected before and after amoxycillin treatments; kidneys were collected at 
slaughter, and examined by fluorescent antibody test and microbiological 
culture.
RESULTS: Leptospires were isolated from the urine of 11 of 14 heifers inoculated 
with L hardjo. After treatment of six of these with two injections of 
amoxycillin, leptospires were not isolated. Of the controls, four of the five 
initially leptospiruric heifers continued to shed leptospires; after a single 
injection of amoxycillin, no leptospires were detected in the kidneys of these 
four.
CONCLUSION: Amoxycillin may be an acceptable alternative to dihydrostreptomycin 
sulphate for the treatment of cattle infected with L hardjo.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1751-0813.1997.tb15661.x
PMID: 9404617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Dent Update. 2013 Nov;40(9):740-2. doi: 10.12968/denu.2013.40.9.740.

The characteristics of bisphosphonate patients developing bisphosphonate-related 
osteonecrosis of the jaw attending an OMFS department.

Serrant PS(1), Clark S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Wigan Royal Albert Edward 
Infirmary, Lancashire, UK.

This case series considers the incidence of patients taking bisphosphonate 
medication that suffer with bisphosphonate-related osteonecrosis of the jaw 
(BRONJ) following an exodontia procedure. Forty five such patients who attended 
the Wigan Royal Albert Edward Infirmary (RAEI) Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery 
(OMFS) department for an exodontia procedure were examined. A patient's age, 
gender, exodontia technique, bisphosphonate route (Oral/IV), smoking status and 
reason for taking the bisphosphonates, eg osteoporosis/cancer/ arthritis was 
considered. All of the patients that experienced BRONJ were smokers.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Bisphosphonates are now widely accepted for the management 
of medical conditions, including arthritis, osteoporosis and various forms of 
cancer. Such patients are regularly referred to OMFS departments for dental 
extractions.

DOI: 10.12968/denu.2013.40.9.740
PMID: 24386766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Minerva Urol Nefrol. 2007 Mar;59(1):1-10.

[Single dose versus 5-day course of oral prulifloxacin in antimicrobial 
prophylaxis for transrectal prostate biopsy].

[Article in Italian]

Mari M(1).

Author information:
(1)U.O.C. Urologia, Ospedale degli Infermi, Rivoli (TO), Italy. 
mauromari@yahoo.com

AIM: Prostate biopsy and histology are necessary studies for diagnosing prostate 
cancer. The rationale for antimicrobial prophylaxis in urologic, diagnostic and 
treatment procedures is given by the possible risk of bacterial contamination. 
Since oral administration is generally preferred and the most common pathogens 
are Gram-negative bacteria, the antimicrobials of choice are fluoroquinolones 
and amoxicillin/clavulanic acid.
METHODS: The study sample was 432 consecutively enrolled males (age range 44-82 
years) who underwent transrectal ultrasound-guided prostate biopsy. The subjects 
were randomly assigned to 2 groups. One (210, 48.6%) received a single oral dose 
of prulifloxacin (600 mg) before the operation (group 1); the other (222, 51.4%) 
received a 5-day course of the antimicrobial.
RESULTS: The most frequent events were bleeding (hematuria and hemospermia) 
(about 15%), which resolved spontaneously within several days. Fever, the chief 
symptom of infection, occurred in 4/432 (0.93%) and was equally distributed 
between the 2 groups (0.95% and 0.90% in groups 1 and 2, respectively). Patient 
compliance with antimicrobial prophylaxis was good to excellent. Histology of 
the prostate sample revealed carcinoma in 46.5%, and other prostate conditions 
in 53.5%: benign prostate hypertrophy, chronic prostatitis, high grade prostate 
intraepithelial neoplasia, and suspicious but not diagnostic atypia.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients undergoing transrectal ultrasound-guided prostate 
biopsy, antimicrobial prophylaxis with prulifloxacin, both in single shot and 
5-day administration, was found to prevent infection, with good tolerability and 
acceptability by the patients.

PMID: 17431366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Ann Pediatr (Paris). 1989 Jan;36(1):49-54.

[Treatment of acute otitis media in infants using an amoxicillin-clavulanic acid 
formulation (in the form of an oral suspension for pediatric use)].

[Article in French]

Cohen R, Lebeaut A, Narcy P.

In a multicenter study, Augmentin pediatric suspension was given to 1,227 young 
children (3 months - 3 years) with otitis media seen in private practice. 
Patterns of otitis included first episodes, recurrences, and forms that had 
failed to respond to previous antimicrobial therapy. The study medication was 
given as a first-line treatment, on the basis of epidemiologic data, in a daily 
dose of 40 mg/kg for 7 to 10 days. In the 3 months to 3 years age group, two 
micro-organisms are prevalent, ie. Haemophilus influenzae, which is the most 
common agent and may produce beta-lactamases (10 to 18% of strains), and 
Streptococcus pneumoniae. Among our patients, the otitis-conjunctivitis syndrome 
caused by Haemophilus influenzae was fairly frequent (8.7% of cases). Clinical 
effectiveness as evaluated between D8 and D11 was good or very good in 91.2% of 
cases. Tolerance was satisfactory in 83% of patients. Side effects were uncommon 
and consisted primarily in gastrointestinal symptoms. We point out the 
potentially deleterious effect of concurrent anti-inflammatory treatment. 
Acceptability of the suspension was judged satisfactory by the parents in 91.6% 
of cases. Augmentin proved well-suited to epidemiologic data, outstandingly 
effective, well tolerated, and easy to use because of its presentation as a 
pediatric suspension; it is therefore an appropriate first-line drug in the 
common indication addressed in our study.

PMID: 2648939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Nihon Kokyuki Gakkai Zasshi. 2002 Jan;40(1):17-25.

[Cost-effectiveness analysis of ambulatory treatment for adult patients with 
community-acquired pneumonia: according to Japanese Respiratory Society 
guidelines].

[Article in Japanese]

Morimoto T(1), Koyama H, Shimbo T, Fukui T.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Medicine and Clinical Epidemiology, Kyoto University 
Graduate School of Medicine, 54 Kawahara-cho, Shogoin, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8507, 
Japan.

The Japanese Respiratory Society has recently formulated practice guidelines for 
the management of adult patients with community-acquired pneumonia. The 
guidelines recommend the use of various oral antibiotics at individual 
physicians' discretion. We compared the cost-effectiveness of 
amoxicillin/clavulanate (AMPC/CVA), azithromycin (AZM), clarithromycin (CAM), 
cefdinir (CFDN), levofloxacin (LVFX), and minocycline (MINO), when used on an 
ambulatory basis. We performed a formal cost-effectiveness analysis from the 
perspective of direct cost payers in the framework of the Japanese medical 
system. Outcomes considered were quality-adjusted life days (QALD), costs per 
patient, and incremental costs per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained. 
Under baseline conditions, the effectiveness of MINO, AZM, CAM, and LVFX were on 
a par and higher than that of AMPC/CVA or CFDN by 125-290.5 QALD. The least 
expensive antibiotic was MINO (55,070 to 59,208 yen), followed by AZM (56,049 to 
60,188 yen), CAM (56,171 to 60,309 yen), LVFX (61,988 to 66,127 yen). AMPC/CVA 
(122,432 to 133,797 yen), and CFDN (123,375 to 134,649 yen). Thus, MINO, AZM, 
and CAM were cost-effective antibiotics for adults with community-acquired 
pneumonia. Sensitivity analyses revealed that the initial success rate of each 
antibiotic was crucial in determining cost-effectiveness. When the number of 
times antibiotics are taken in a day and the period of therapy were taken into 
account, AZM was most beneficial with 917,179-1,152,694 yen (US$ 7,643-9,606) 
per additional QALY over MINO in patients without comorbidity. This result, 
however, was not applicable to patients with chronic lung disease. MINO was the 
least expensive and the most cost-effective in empirically treating adult 
patients with community-acquired pneumonia on an ambulatory basis. AZM provides 
a higher quality of life for adults without comorbidity with generally 
acceptable marginal cost.

PMID: 11925912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Analyst. 1990 Mar;115(3):309-13. doi: 10.1039/an9901500309.

Automated flow injection spectrophotometric determination of para- and 
meta-substituted phenols of pharmaceutical interest based on their oxidative 
condensation with 1-nitroso-2-naphthol.

Georgiou CA(1), Koupparis MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Athens, Greece.

The reaction of para- and meta-substituted phenols with 1-nitroso-2-naphthol in 
the presence of either CeIV or PbIV as an oxidant has been used to develop a 
fast automated flow injection (Fl) method. A stopped-flow kinetic study of the 
reaction revealed the optimum conditions for the proposed Fl method. 
Acetaminophen, amoxicillin, cefadroxil, isoxsuprine, nylidrin, propylparaben, 
tyrosine and metaraminol can be determined in the range 1 x 10(-4)-8 x 10(-4) M, 
with relative standard deviations of less than 2%, and a measurement throughput 
of 40 measurements h-1. The method was evaluated by performing interference 
studies of common excipients and assaying commercial formulations of 
acetaminophen and isoxsuprine. The results were in good agreement with those 
obtained by acceptable spectrophotometric or high-performance liquid 
chromatographic methods (mean difference 2.1%). The high sample throughput of 
the Fl method was exploited by performing a content uniformity test of 
isoxsuprine tablets.

DOI: 10.1039/an9901500309
PMID: 2327593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Afr J Med Med Sci. 1985 Sep-Dec;14(3-4):169-73.

Single dose treatment of gonococcal urethritis with augmentin in Ibadan.

Osoba AO, Oyelese AO, Ashiru JO, Ekweozor CC, Ochei J.

Augmentin, a new orally absorbed broadspectrum antibacterial agent comprising of 
amoxycillin trihydrate and potassium clavulanate, was investigated in the 
treatment of gonococcal urethritis in Ibadan, Nigeria, where penicillinase 
producing Neisseria gonorrhoeae (PPNG) constitute about 80% of the circulating 
strains of gonococci. Two different formulations of the agent were employed in 
the study. The first formulation consisting of 3.0 g amoxycillin and 125 mg 
clavulanic acid, achieved a cure rate of 75% (i.e. eighteen out of twenty-four 
patients) among PPNG infections, but 100% cure rate among nine patients with 
non-PPNG infections. The second formulation consisting of 3.0 g amoxycillin and 
250 mg clavulanic acid, had a cure rate of 86% (i.e. fifty-seven out of 
sixty-six patients) among PPNG infections, and 91% (i.e. ten out of eleven 
patients) among non-PPNG infections. Clavulanic acid appears to potentiate and 
enhance the activity of amoxycillin against the beta-lactamase produced by the 
gonococci. Augmentin seems to be a good and acceptable agent for the treatment 
of gonococcal infections, in this environment and further studies on its 
efficacy are therefore justified, such as the simultaneous administration of 
probenecid.

PMID: 3004176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. J R Army Med Corps. 2010 Mar;156(1):21-4. doi: 10.1136/jramc-156-01-04.

Selective non-operative management of ballistic abdominal solid organ injury in 
the deployed military setting.

Wood AM(1), Trimble K, Louden MA, Jansen J.

Author information:
(1)Edinburgh Orthopaedic Trauma Unit, Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh.

This article describes the non-operative management of five patients with 
ballistic abdominal solid organ injuries in a role 2E medical treatment 
facility. The selective non-operative management of ballistic abdominal solid 
organ injury is an accepted management strategy in high-volume civilian trauma 
centres, and appears to be equally safe and effective in the deployed military 
setting.

DOI: 10.1136/jramc-156-01-04
PMID: 20433100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. J Antimicrob Chemother. 1997 Nov;40(5):713-6. doi: 10.1093/jac/40.5.713.

A new semi-solid agar dilution method for determining amoxycillin, 
clarithromycin and azithromycin MICs for Helicobacter pylori isolates.

Kobayashi I(1), Hasegawa M, Saika T, Nishida M, Fujioka T, Nasu M.

Author information:
(1)Chemotherapy Division, Mitsubishi-Kagaku Bio-Clinical Laboratories, Tokyo, 
Japan.

The MICs of amoxycillin, clarithromycin and azithromycin for 26 strains of 
Helicobacter pylori were determined using Mueller-Hinton semi-solid agar (SSA) 
without CO2 incubation, as in the conventional agar dilution method. The tested 
H. pylori strains grew satisfactorily in the SSA method within 48 h of 
incubation. Reasonable values of MICs of three antibiotics for these strains 
were obtained by this method, avoiding the inactivation of macrolides due to 
acidification of the medium. By this method, the MICs of the antibiotics for the 
reference strains were within the acceptable NCCLS ranges for quality control.

DOI: 10.1093/jac/40.5.713
PMID: 9421321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Br J Vener Dis. 1975 Dec;51(6):398-400. doi: 10.1136/sti.51.6.398.

Amoxycillin in the treatment of gonorrhoea.

Price JD, Fluker JL.

A series of 162 patients with uncomplicated genital gonorrhoea was assessed 
after single-dose treatment with 3 g. amoxycillin. This seems to be an 
acceptable method of treatment, resulting in clearance rates in both male and 
female patients of 99 and 95% respectively at the first follow-up. The default 
rates on follow-up over a 4-week period are also shown.

DOI: 10.1136/sti.51.6.398
PMCID: PMC1045190
PMID: 1218365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Wiad Lek. 2014;67(2 Pt 2):335-7.

[Estimation of efficiency of anti-helicobacter therapy in patients with a 
chronic pancreatitis combined with an erosive gastropathy].

[Article in Ukrainian]

Koval' VIu, Kotsiubniak LA, Moskal' OM.

SUMMARY Eradikacion therapy at patients with chronic pancreatitis and combined 
with Helicobacter associated erosive gastropathy in a month after treatment 
appeared successful at 75% patients which accepted therapy of the first 
line--pantoprazol, amoksicillin, klaritromicin. Inclusion in antihelicobakter 
therapy of seknidazol in place of klaritromicin rendered a positive 
antihelicobakter effect at 85% patients with a chronic pancreatitis. Therapy 
with the use of seknidazole was better tolerated. Application of synbiotik 
laktiale on a background antihelicobakter therapy helped normalizations of chair 
and was comfortable in application, which is important in the treatment of 
patients. Application of synbiotika laktiale on a background antigelikobakter 
therapy is helped in the improvement of clinical effect.

PMID: 25796863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


481. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1984 Sep 15;114(37):1246-52.

[Prevention of bacterial endocarditis. Recommendations of the Swiss Work Group 
for the Prevention of Endocarditis].

[Article in German]

[No authors listed]

Recommendations of the Swiss Working Group for Prophylaxis of bacterial 
endocarditis. Despite the lack of definitive evidence for the efficacy of 
antibiotics in the prevention of bacterial endocarditis (BE) in man, it is 
accepted practice for antibiotics to be administered to patients at risk of 
developing BE following a diagnostic or therapeutic procedure which may cause 
bacteremia. The prophylactic regimens so far recommended are cumbersome and 
compliance is poor. An attempt is made to unify and simplify Swiss 
recommendations, taking into account the authors' own recent experimental 
results, pharmacological data, and clinical experience. It is proposed that the 
patients be classified into two risk groups: First, patients with congenital and 
acquired heart disease, previous palliative or non-definitive cardiac surgery, 
mitral valve prolapse with mitral insufficiency, and hypertrophic obstructive 
cardiomyopathy should be considered at moderate risk. For those patients a 
single dose of an orally administered antibiotic should be given 1 h before the 
procedure. The first choice antibiotic should be amoxicillin (3 g orally) for 
all procedures, except when S. aureus is likely to cause bacteremia (i.e. after 
drainage of abscesses, where flucloxacillin (2 g orally) should be used 1 h 
before the procedure). Amoxicillin is also recommended for patients receiving 
penicillin during the days prior to the procedure (for prevention of rheumatic 
fever, or for any other reason). Patients allergic to penicillin should be given 
600 mg clindamycin orally 1 h before the procedure. Second, patients with 
valvular prosthesis or previous BE should be considered at high risk.(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 6484552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Pharmazie. 2011 May;66(5):368-73.

Double liposomes mediated dual drug targeting for treatment of Helicobacter 
pylori infections.

Singh DY(1), Prasad NK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Guru Ghasidas Central University, 
Bilaspur, Chattisgarh, India. yuvi2006@gmail.com

In the present study the potential of phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) lipid 
anchored double liposomes (DL) to incorporate two drugs in a single system is 
exploited as a tool to augment the H. pylori eradication rate. Preparation of DL 
involves two steps, first formation of primary (inner) liposomes by thin film 
hydration method containing one drug, then addition of suspension of inner 
liposomes on thin film of lipid containing the other drug. The success of 
formation of DL was characterized by optical and transmission electron 
microscopy. Quantitation of DL-bacterial interaction was evaluated in terms of 
percent growth inhibition (%GI) on reference strain of H. pylori ATCC 26695. To 
confirm specific binding efficacy of DL to H. pylori PE surface receptor we 
performed an agglutination assay. Agglutination in DL treated H. pylori 
suspension suggested selectivity of DL towards the PE surface receptor of H. 
pylori. Monotherapy is generally not recommended for treatment of a H. pylori 
infection due to the danger of development of resistance and unacceptably low 
eradication rates. Therefore combination therapy with amoxicillin trihydrate 
(AMOX) as anti-H. pylori agent and ranitidine bismuth citrate (RBC) as 
antisecretory agent were selected for the study with an expectation that this 
dual-drug delivery approach will exert acceptable anti-H. pylori activity.

PMID: 21699071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Fogorv Sz. 2010 Dec;103(4):115-8.

[New guidelines on the prevention of infective endocarditis. Special aspects for 
dentists].

[Article in Hungarian]

Keltai K(1), Gera I, Gábris K, Orosz M.

Author information:
(1)Semmelweis Egyetem, Altalános Orvostudományi Kar III. sz. Belgyógyászati 
Klinika, Budapest.

Infective endocarditis (IE) is a disease with serious, even fatal complications, 
often requiring long-term and expensive treatment. Therefore, prophylaxis has 
emerging importance. Previous guidelines suggested the use of prophylactic 
treatment for a wide range of patients and procedures. The Working Group of the 
European Society of Cardiology accepted a new guideline on the prevention, 
diagnosis, and treatment of infective endocarditis in 2009. One of its major 
point is a radical decrease in the type of procedures requiring prophylaxis. 
These changes also affect dental and oral surgical procedures. It is important 
for dentists and oral surgeons to come to know the changes and to apply them in 
their everyday practice.

PMID: 21268390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. N Z Dent J. 2007 Sep;103(3):51-7.

Bacterial chemoprophylaxis knowledge and practice among New Zealand dentists.

Ponnambalam Y(1), Love RM, Thomson WM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Sciences, School of Dentistry, Univeristy of Otago, 
Dunedin, New Zeland.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate general dental practitioners' current understanding 
and practice of oral antibiotic prophylaxis.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional survey of a random sample of New Zealand general dental 
practitioners (GDPs).
METHODS: A postal questionnaire was sent to 700 GDPs (response rate 64.5%).
RESULTS: Most practitioners (91.3%) followed the guidelines of the National 
Heart Foundation of New Zealand (NHFNZ), rather than those of other 
organisations, and the majority accurately prescribed the standard oral 
amoxycillin dose. However, there was inconsistency when prescribing for 
penicillin-allergic patients, with three-quarters of respondents opting for 
inappropriate regimens, and almost half favouring an outdated erythromycin 
regimen. There was also inconsistency in prescribing for patients with a 
prosthetic joint. Most respondents considered their practice to be adequately 
equipped to handle an allergic reaction.
CONCLUSIONS: In general, New Zealand GDPs adhere to the accepted guidelines for 
antibiotic prophylaxis, but some confusion remains, and a review of the NHFNZ 
guidelines may be warranted to ensure that they reflect current scientific 
opinion, and to make New Zealand guidelines consistent with those used in 
similar countries.

PMID: 17892031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Rocz Akad Med Bialymst. 1998;43:271-7.

Epidemiology of erythema migrans in north-eastern Poland.

Chodynicka B(1), Flisiak I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology and Venereology, Medical Academy, Białystok.

The aim of the study was to evaluate erythema migrans (EM) prevalence and 
treatment in north-eastern Poland during the last 25 years. The material for the 
study consisted of data sent to the Department of Dermatology by physicians from 
fifteen regional out-patient clinics. They were collected according to specially 
prepared questionnaires. The data were analysed with respect to the total number 
of EM cases, patients' age, seasonal prevalence of the disease, dynamics of its 
prevalence and treatment methods in successive years. Of the 262,421 case 
histories, retrospectively analysed 1235 EM cases (0.4%) were found. The age of 
the patients varied from 4 to 78 years. The highest incidence was observed 
between August and October (57.7% of all cases). The annual number of cases 
increased from only a few, in the years 1969-76, to over 436 in 1993. Penicillin 
or erythromycin were preferred for the treatment of EM before 1981, tetracycline 
or ampicillin between 1982-90, and amoxicillin or doxycycline in the last three 
years. Our results showed a significant increase in the number of EM cases in 
the dermatological clinics of north-eastern Poland in recent years. The 
treatment of the disease applied at present, complies with the generally 
accepted guidelines.

PMID: 9972063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Am J Dis Child. 1978 Oct;132(10):992-6. doi: 
10.1001/archpedi.1978.02120350056011.

Treatment of acute otitis media of infancy with cefaclor.

Nelson JD, Ginsburg CM, Clahsen JC, Jackson LH.

The emergence of ampicillin-resistant Haemophilus as a clinical problem in 
otitis media necessitates a search for alternative, effective therapy. An orally 
absorbable cephalosporin derivative, cefaclor, is equally effective in vitro 
against ampicillin-susceptible and -resistant Haemophilus and against other 
bacteria that cause acute otitis media. Two dosage schedules of cefaclor (40 and 
60 mg/kg/day) were evaluated in 95 infants with acute otitis media. Bacterial 
origin was determined by a culture of tympanocentesis fluid. Success rates using 
the smaller dosage were inferior to those using the larger dosage. Results of 
therapy for pneumococcal and Haemophilus infection with 60 mg/kg/day were 
comparable to those previously found with amoxicillin trihydrate or with 
combinations of trisulfapyrimadines with erythromycin or penicillin V. One 
patient with an ampicillin-resistant Haemophilus infection responded well to 
cefaclor and did not have a relapse. Cefaclor was well tolerated and caused an 
acceptably low incidence of minor, adverse effects. Cefaclor deserves further 
testing as a candidate for preferred status as a single-drug treatment of acute 
otitis media.

DOI: 10.1001/archpedi.1978.02120350056011
PMID: 31084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Rev Esp Enferm Dig. 1996 Oct;88(10):695-9.

[Survey on Helicobacter pylori and peptic ulcer in Spain].

[Article in Spanish]

Pajares García JM(1), Monés Xiol J.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Aparato Digestivo, Hospital de la Princesa, Madrid.

OBJECTIVE: The goal of this study is to determine, through a national survey, 
the degree of acceptance among gastroenterologists of the relationship between 
Helicobacter pylori and peptic ulcer, and how they manage their patients 
according to this association.
STUDY DESIGN: An observational study through a self-administered questionnaire.
PARTICIPANTS: The questionnaire was distributed to 690 gastroenterologists from 
all over Spain. The questionnaire was answered by 687 specialists.
RESULTS: Most (98.1%) Spanish specialists accept the relationship, 1.5% are 
reluctant, and 0.3% are irresolute. Eradication treatments are prescribed by 
96.4% of the gastroenterologists, mainly omeprazole+amoxicillin, in 1994, though 
only 40.8% of gastroenterologists always prescribe it for H. pylori positive 
peptic ulcer. A control of the effectiveness of the treatment is undertaken by 
84.3% of gastroenterologists.
CONCLUSIONS: The relationship between H. pylori and ulcer is accepted by Spanish 
gastroenterologists, as well as eradication therapy.

PMID: 8983309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Talanta. 1993 Mar;40(3):453-7. doi: 10.1016/0039-9140(93)80258-s.

Non-enzymatic optical sensor for penicillins.

He H(1), Li H, Uray G, Wolfbeis OS.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Organic Chemistry, Karl-Franzens University, A-8010 Graz, 
Austria.

We report on the first penicillin-sensitive fluorosensor not based on the use of 
an enzyme. Rather, the recognition process relies on the use of an anion carrier 
(which carries the penicillin anion from the aqueous sample into the membrane), 
a proton receptor (lipophilic nile blue which accepts the proton, thereby 
undergoing a change in fluorescence intensity), and a new lipophilic hydroxylic 
plasticizer material (which facilitates ion transport). All materials are 
contained in a dyed poly(vinyl chloride) membrane whose fluorescence is 
monitored. The optical sensor fully reversibly responds to penicillin V over the 
0.01-10mM concentration range, and to penicillin G from 0.03 to 10mM. Potential 
interferences by about 20 other anions have been investigated. Nitrate, 
salicylate, and ascorbate were found to interfere significantly. These species 
are, however, usually not present in penicillin bioreactors or drug formulations 
where penicillin sensing is most important. The sensor does not respond to 
penicillins containing an aliphatic amino group (such as amoxicillin). The 
method has been applied for determination of penicillin G in pharmaceutical 
formulations.

DOI: 10.1016/0039-9140(93)80258-s
PMID: 18965650


489. Scand J Infect Dis Suppl. 1992;83:22-5.

Azithromycin in upper respiratory tract infections: a clinical trial in children 
with otitis media.

Pestalozza G(1), Cioce C, Facchini M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, Ospedale dei Bambini V. Buzzi, Milan, Italy.

Azithromycin is a newly developed azalide antibiotic which is very active 
against microbes causing respiratory tract infections; tissue concentrations 
remain elevated for a long time after discontinuation of treatment. A clinical 
study was conducted to compare azithromycin (10 mg/kg administered as a single 
daily dose for 3 days) with amoxycillin/clavulanic acid (50 mg/kg/day given 
b.i.d. for 10 days) in 30 children with otitis media. Sensitivity testing 
demonstrated good azithromycin activity against beta-haemolytic streptococci, 
Moraxella catarrhalis, Haemophilus influenzae and Staphylococcus aureus. By day 
12, clinical cure was recorded in 14/15 children treated with azithromycin and 
this was maintained at day 30. In the day 12 and 13/15 children by day 30. It 
was concluded that a 3-day azithromycin regimen produces a satisfactory clinical 
response and the eradication of key pathogens, and was acceptable for children.

PMID: 1336892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Acta Obstet Gynecol Scand. 2000 Oct;79(10):879-83.

Medium-term follow-up of women with menorrhagia treated by rollerball 
endometrial ablation.

el Senoun GS(1), Mousa HA, Mahmood TA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Forth Park Hospital, Kirkcaldy, 
Fife, Scotland, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: To assess medium-term efficacy of rollerball endometrial ablation in 
a district general hospital.
METHOD: From March 1992 to June 1997, 91 women underwent rollerball endometrial 
ablation for uncontrolled menorrhagia unresponsive to medical treatment. Each 
was sent a detailed questionnaire after at least 18 months (range 18-55). There 
was an overall response rate of 88% (80/91). Case notes were reviewed to collect 
additional data related to pre-operative management and actual operative 
procedure. The main outcome measures included treatment satisfaction, relief of 
symptoms, improvement in health related quality of life, at least 18 months 
after surgery.
RESULTS: Thirty-five of the 80 women (44%) had achieved amenorrhea. Ten women 
required further treatment; of these seven had a hysterectomy (9%). None of the 
non-responders had a hysterectomy. Following rollerball endometrial ablation, 
many women reported improvement in cyclical pelvic pain (73%), pre-menstrual 
symptoms (65%), ability to do housework (85%), and an improved sexual life 
(96%). Seventy-nine (99%) women were able to return to normal work within 4 
weeks following surgery. The majority of them remained satisfied with treatment 
(79%) and they would recommend it to a friend (91%).
CONCLUSIONS: Rollerball endometrial ablation is a simple, effective, and 
acceptable procedure for the treatment of menorrhagia in selected cases. 
Longer-term follow up is still needed to establish the ultimate effectiveness of 
the procedure.

PMID: 11304973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. J Med Invest. 2003 Feb;50(1-2):48-54.

Long-term follow-up of gastric metaplasia after eradication of Helicobacter 
pylori.

Urakami Y(1), Sano T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Urakami Gastro Clinic, Tokushima, Japan.

BACKGROUNDS AND AIMS: There is no commonly accepted view concerning changes in 
gastric metaplasia after the eradication of Helicobacter pylori. The aim of this 
study was to evaluate the long-term course of gastric metaplasia after the 
eradication of this bacterium.
METHODS: The subjects were 59 patients with duodenal ulcer who were positive for 
Helicobacter pylori. Forty patients were classified as the eradication group. 
Gastric metaplasia was endoscopically and histologically evaluated before and 
after eradication of this bacterium. The follow-up period was 2-7.1 years. In 
the other 19 patients in the non-eradication group, gastric metaplasia was 
evaluated before and after treatment of the ulcer. Gastric metaplasia was 
evaluated in terms of its extent and type in all patients.
RESULTS: Gastric metaplasia showed the incomplete type before eradication but 
changed to the complete type after eradication, which persisted for a long 
period. The extent of gastric metaplasia increased after eradication. In the 
non-eradication group, gastric metaplasia infrequently changed to the complete 
type during the scarring period of ulcer.
CONCLUSION: Gastric metaplasia changed to the complete type after the 
eradication of Helicobacter pylori, which persisted for a long period.

PMID: 12630568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Jpn J Antibiot. 1976 Jul;29(7):695-700.

[Clinical investigation of amoxicillin (clamoxyl 'Beecham') granules in 
pediatrics (author's transl)].

[Article in Japanese]

Nakazawa S, Sato H, Fujii S, Kohima S, Hirama Y.

Amoxicillin granule (100 mg AMPC potency per 1.0 g granule) was administered to 
pediatric patients with the following results. 1) AAMPC serum concentration and 
the urinary recovery of two preparations (Clamoxyl 'Beecham' and Sawacillin 
'Fujisawa') granule were compared in a cross over trial in 5 healthy adult 
volunteers. No significant difference in the results was observed between the 
two granules. 2) The peak serum concentration after oral administration of 10 
mg/kg AMPC to 5 children gave an average of 5.06 mug/ml 1 hour after 
administration. The 6-hour urinary excretion was distributed 51.4 approximatley 
78.9%. 3) AMPC was administered at a dose of about 20 mg/kg/day to 35 children 
with acute pediatric infections that is scarlet fever, acute tonsillitis, 
tonsillitis lacunalis, acute bronchitis, bronchial asthma +bronchitis and 
infectious impetigo. An effective therapeutic result was obtained in all cases. 
4) The granule was well accepted by young children, and at a dose level of about 
20 mg/kg/day for a week no disorder on hepatorenal function was observed in any 
og the patients.

PMID: 1048199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. J Chemother. 1990 Feb;2(1):8-10. doi: 10.1080/1120009x.1990.11738972.

In-vitro evaluation of a new oral cephalosporin, cefroxadine (CGP 9000).

Shibl AM(1), Durgham SM.

Author information:
(1)King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.

The in vitro activity of cefroxadine was studied and found to be at least 
comparable to that previously reported for cefalexin and cefradine. The activity 
of cefroxadine was superior to that of amoxicillin against tested isolates. 
Time-killing studies showed that the addition of 4 X minimum inhibitory 
concentration (MIC) of cefroxadine to growing cultures reduced viable counts by 
4 log units within a 3 h incubation. A diffusion test with a 30 microgram 
cefroxadine disk produced acceptable interpretive results with tentative zone 
size breakpoints of less than or equal to 14 mm for resistance and greater than 
or equal to 17 mm for susceptibility.

DOI: 10.1080/1120009x.1990.11738972
PMID: 2332786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Int J Periodontics Restorative Dent. 1997 Feb;17(1):41-51.

Clinical results with exposed polyglactin 910 resorbable membranes for guided 
tissue regeneration.

Urbani G(1), Graziani A, Lombardo G, Caton JG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Periodontics, University of Verona, Policlinico Borgo Roma, 
Italy.

Three cases are presented where early exposure of a resorbable membrane occurred 
during guided tissue regeneration therapy. An antimicrobial regimen was selected 
to determine whether infection of exposed membranes could be controlled to the 
point of achieving acceptable clinical results without membrane removal. The 
results suggest that with the use of the antimicrobial regimen: (1) exposure is 
compatible with successful clinical results, and (2) removal is not necessary.

PMID: 10332252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. J Clin Microbiol. 1989 Jan;27(1):192-5. doi: 10.1128/jcm.27.1.192-195.1989.

Quality control limits for the standard anaerobic reference agar dilution 
susceptibility test procedure of the National Committee for Clinical Laboratory 
Standards.

Barry AL(1), Fuchs PC, Allen SD, Thornsberry C, Gerlach EH, Jones RN.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Microbiology Institute, Tualatin, Oregon 97062.

Multilaboratory studies were performed to develop MIC quality control limits for 
the National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards reference agar dilution 
method for anaerobic susceptibility tests. Acceptable MICs were defined as those 
which include greater than 95% of all 100 MICs generated by the study. Most MIC 
control limits included either 2- or 3-dilution intervals rather than the more 
traditional 3-dilution intervals that are described as the mode +/- 1 doubling 
dilution.

DOI: 10.1128/jcm.27.1.192-195.1989
PMCID: PMC267262
PMID: 2643622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Rev Clin Esp. 1993 Feb;192(3):130-3.

[An analysis of drug advertising in non-specialty medical journals].

[Article in Spanish]

López Valpuesta FJ(1), Hevia Alonso A, Vázquez Díaz JA, Fernández López JA, 
Fernández Alonso A.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Farmacología, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de Sevilla.

It has been evaluated drug advertisement in four medical journals during 1989. A 
questionnaire allows us to evaluate pharmacological and advertising data. The 
main results obtained are the following: amoxicillin + clavulanic acid was the 
more advertising drug; the ratio publicity/pharmacological information was 3:1; 
60% of the advertising products were new drugs, and only a 6% were essentials 
drugs according to WHO; slogans were acceptable; generally, aspects such as 
dosage and toxicology are referred. However, it is necessary to improve 
information about drug use in elderly patients, patients with impaired renal 
functional, as well as the necessary information in adverse drug reactions.

PMID: 8465049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Am J Gastroenterol. 2006 Aug;101(8):1938; author reply 1938-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1572-0241.2006.00684_1.x.

Triple levofloxacin-based rescue therapy is an accepted empirical third-line 
treatment.

Rokkas T, Sechopoulos P, Robotis J, Pistiolas D.

Comment on
    Am J Gastroenterol. 2006 Feb;101(2):243-7. doi: 
10.1111/j.1572-0241.2006.00457.x.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1572-0241.2006.00684_1.x
PMID: 16928256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Curr Pediatr Rev. 2024;21(1):2-17. doi: 10.2174/1573396320666230726145436.

Group A β-hemolytic Streptococcal Pharyngitis: An Updated Review.

Leung AKC(1), Lam JM(2), Barankin B(3), Leong KF(4), Hon KL(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, The University of Calgary, Alberta Children's 
Hospital, Calgary, Alberta, Canada.
(2)Department of Pediatrics and Department of Dermatology and Skin Sciences, 
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
(3)Department of Dermatology, Toronto Dermatology Centre, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(4)Pediatric Institute, Kuala Lumpur General Hospital, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(5)Department of Paediatrics, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, 
China.
(6)Department of Paediatrics and Adolescent Medicine, Hong Kong Children's 
Hospital, Hong Kong, China.

BACKGROUND: Group A ß-hemolytic Streptococcus (GABHS) is the leading bacterial 
cause of acute pharyngitis in children and adolescents worldwide.
OBJECTIVE: This article aims to familiarize clinicians with the clinical 
manifestations, evaluation, diagnosis, and management of GABHS pharyngitis.
METHODS: A search was conducted in December 2022 in PubMed Clinical Queries 
using the key term "group A β-hemolytic streptococcal pharyngitis". This review 
covers mainly literature published in the previous ten years.
RESULTS: Children with GABHS pharyngitis typically present with an abrupt onset 
of fever, intense pain in the throat, pain on swallowing, an inflamed pharynx, 
enlarged and erythematous tonsils, a red and swollen uvula, enlarged tender 
anterior cervical lymph nodes. As clinical manifestations may not be specific, 
even experienced clinicians may have difficulties diagnosing GABHS pharyngitis 
solely based on epidemiologic or clinical grounds alone. Patients suspected of 
having GABHS pharyngitis should be confirmed by microbiologic testing (e.g., 
culture, rapid antigen detection test, molecular point-of-care test) of a throat 
swab specimen prior to the initiation of antimicrobial therapy. Microbiologic 
testing is generally unnecessary in patients with pharyngitis whose clinical and 
epidemiologic findings do not suggest GABHS. Clinical score systems such as the 
Centor score and McIssac score have been developed to help clinicians decide 
which patients should undergo diagnostic testing and reduce the unnecessary use 
of antimicrobials. Antimicrobial therapy should be initiated without delay once 
the diagnosis is confirmed. Oral penicillin V and amoxicillin remain the drugs 
of choice. For patients who have a non-anaphylactic allergy to penicillin, oral 
cephalosporin is an acceptable alternative. For patients with a history of 
immediate, anaphylactic-type hypersensitivity to penicillin, oral clindamycin, 
clarithromycin, and azithromycin are acceptable alternatives.
CONCLUSION: Early diagnosis and antimicrobial treatment are recommended to 
prevent suppurative complications (e.g., cervical lymphadenitis, peritonsillar 
abscess) and non-suppurative complications (particularly rheumatic fever) as 
well as to reduce the severity of symptoms, to shorten the duration of the 
illness and to reduce disease transmission.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/1573396320666230726145436
PMID: 37493159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. J Chromatogr A. 2008 Mar 28;1185(2):273-80. doi: 10.1016/j.chroma.2007.12.088. 
Epub 2008 Jan 12.

Trace determination of beta-lactam antibiotics in environmental aqueous samples 
using off-line and on-line preconcentration in capillary electrophoresis.

Bailón-Pérez MI(1), García-Campaña AM, Cruces-Blanco C, del Olmo Iruela M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Analytical Chemistry, Faculty of Sciences, Campus Fuentenueva, 
s/n, E-18071 Granada, Spain.

A sensitive and reliable method using capillary zone electrophoresis with 
UV-diode array detection (CZE-DAD) has been developed and validated for trace 
determination of beta-lactam antibiotics in waste, well and river water 
matrices. Due to the lack of sensitivity of the UV-vis detection, a solvent 
extraction/solid-phase extraction (SPE) method applied for off-line 
preconcentration and cleanup of water samples, in combination with an on-line 
preconcentration methodology named large volume sample stacking (LVSS) have been 
applied. The analytes included nafcillin, dicloxacillin, cloxacillin, oxacillin, 
ampicillin, penicillin G and amoxicillin. Average recoveries for water samples 
fortified with the studied beta-lactams at different concentration levels (1.0, 
2.0 and 4.0 microg/L) were ranging between 94 and 99%, with relative standard 
deviations (RSDs) lower than 10%. The precision, calculated as intra-day and 
inter-day standard deviations fell within acceptable ranges (3.3-7.2%). The 
limits of detection were estimated to range between 0.08 and 0.80 microgL(-1) 
for the studied compounds. All the samples analyzed were negative for all the 
analytes at these levels of concentration and the method showed its usefulness 
for the detection of these widely applied beta-lactam antibiotics in different 
kinds of waters.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chroma.2007.12.088
PMID: 18295774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. J Inherit Metab Dis. 2006 Feb;29(1):162-72. doi: 10.1007/s10545-006-0158-6.

Diagnosis and management of trimethylaminuria (FMO3 deficiency) in children.

Chalmers RA(1), Bain MD, Michelakakis H, Zschocke J, Iles RA.

Author information:
(1)Paediatric Metabolism Unit, St George's Hospital Medical School, London, UK. 
rachalmers@cimoa.org.uk

Persistent trimethylaminuria in children is caused by autosomal recessively 
inherited impairment of hepatic trimethylamine (TMA) oxidation due to deficiency 
of flavin monooxygenase 3 (FMO3) secondary to mutations in the FMO3 gene. 
Trimethylaminuria or 'fish odour syndrome' is due to excessive excretion into 
body fluids and breath of TMA derived from the enterobacterial metabolism of 
dietary precursors. The disorder is present from birth but becomes apparent as 
foods containing high amounts of choline or of trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO) 
from marine (sea or saltwater) fish are introduced into the diet. In our 
experience, trimethylaminuria (FMO3 deficiency) in children is rare. We have 
compared the dynamics and diagnostic efficacy of choline loading with marine 
fish meals in six children with trimethylaminuria. Loading with a marine fish 
meal provides a simple and acceptable method for confirmation of diagnosis of 
suspected trimethylaminuria in children, with the effects being cleared more 
quickly than with a choline load test. However, oral loading with choline 
bitartrate allows estimation of residual oxidative capacity in vivo and is a 
useful adjunct to molecular studies. Patients homozygous for the 'common' P153L 
mutation in the FMO3 gene showed virtual complete lack of residual TMA 
N-oxidative capacity, consistent with a nonfunctional or absent FMO3 enzyme, 
whereas a patient with the M82T mutation showed some residual oxidative 
capacity. A patient compound heterozygous for two novel mutations, G193E and 
R483T, showed considerable residual N-oxidative capacity. A further patient, 
heterozygous for two novel sequence variations in the FMO3 gene, consistently 
showed malodour and elevated urinary TMA/TMAO ratios under basal conditions but 
a negative response to both choline and marine fish meal loading. Comparison of 
the effects of administration of antibiotics (metronidazole, amoxicillin, 
neomycin) on gut bacterial production of trimethylamine from choline showed they 
all reduced TMA production to a limited extent, with neomycin being most 
effective. 'Best-practice' diagnostic and treatment guidelines are summarized.

DOI: 10.1007/s10545-006-0158-6
PMID: 16601883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Rev Hosp Clin Fac Med Sao Paulo. 2001 Jan-Feb;56(1):11-6. doi: 
10.1590/s0041-87812001000100003.

Factors affecting Helicobacter pylori eradication using a seven-day triple 
therapy with a proton pump inhibitor, tinidazole and clarithromycin, in 
Brazilian patients with peptic ulcer.

Silva FM(1), Zaterka S, Eisig JN, Chehter EZ, Chinzon D, Laudanna AA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Hospital das Clínicas, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of São Paulo.

Triple therapy is accepted as the treatment of choice for H. pylori eradication. 
In industrialized countries, a proton pump inhibitor plus clarithromycin and 
amoxicillin or nitroimidazole have shown the best results. Our aims were: 1. To 
study the eradication rate of the association of a proton pump inhibitor plus 
tinidazole and clarithromycin on H. pylori infection in our population. 2. To 
determine if previous treatments, gender, age, tobacco, alcohol use, and 
non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) change the response to therapy.
METHODS: Two hundred patients with peptic ulcer (upper endoscopy) and H. pylori 
infection (histology and rapid urease test - RUT) were included. A proton pump 
inhibitor (lanzoprazole 30 mg or omeprazole 20 mg), tinidazole 500 mg, and 
clarithromycin 250 mg were dispensed twice a day for a seven-day period. 
Eradication was assessed after 10 to 12 weeks of treatment through histology and 
RUT.
RESULTS: The eradication rate of H. pylori per protocol was 65% (128/196 
patients). This rate was 53% for previously treated patients, rising to 76% for 
not previously treated patients, with a statistical difference p<0.01. No 
significant difference was observed regarding sex, tobacco use, alcohol 
consumption, and NSAID use, but for elderly patients the difference was p = 
0.05. Adherence to treatment was good, and side effects were mild.
CONCLUSIONS: A proton pump inhibitor, tinidazole, and clarithromycin bid for 
seven days resulted in H. pylori eradication in 65% of the patients. Previous 
treatments were the main cause of treatment failure.

DOI: 10.1590/s0041-87812001000100003
PMID: 11378678 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Sci Total Environ. 2019 May 15;665:632-640. doi: 
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2019.02.062. Epub 2019 Feb 5.

Incidence and antimicrobial susceptibility fingerprints of Plesiomonas 
shigelliodes isolates in water samples collected from some freshwater resources 
in Southwest Nigeria.

Adesiyan IM(1), Bisi-Johnson MA(2), Ogunfowokan AO(3), Okoh AI(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Ecology and Environmental Studies, Obafemi Awolowo University, 
Ile Ife, Nigeria; South Africa Medical Research Council, Water Monitoring 
Centre, University of Fort Hare, South Africa; Applied and Environmental 
Microbiology Research Group (AEMREG), Department of Biochemistry and 
Microbiology, University of Fort Hare, South Africa. Electronic address: 
modupeadesiyan@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife, Nigeria.
(3)Department of Industrial Chemistry, The Technical University, Ibadan, Oyo 
State, Nigeria; Department of Chemistry, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife, 
Nigeria.
(4)South Africa Medical Research Council, Water Monitoring Centre, University of 
Fort Hare, South Africa; Applied and Environmental Microbiology Research Group 
(AEMREG), Department of Biochemistry and Microbiology, University of Fort Hare, 
South Africa.

Plesiomonas shigelloides, is an emerging and significant enteric pathogen in 
water having implication in both localised and gastrointestinal infections with 
characteristic of displaying high resistance against commonly used antibiotics. 
This study evaluated the prevalence of Plesiomonas shigelloides and their 
antibiogram fingerprints in water sample collected from four rivers in 
South-western Nigeria. In all, 148 presumptive Plesiomonas shigelloides isolates 
was recovered from the rivers out of which 66 (44.6%) were confirmed positive 
for the organism using polymerase chain reaction techniques. Confirmed isolates 
were evaluated for their antibiogram profiles against a panel of 20 
antimicrobials using the disc diffusion method and further screened for relevant 
antibiotic resistance genes. Resistance of the isolates against the 
antimicrobials followed the order: sulphamethoxazole (100%), erythromycin (93%), 
ampicillin (90%), cephalotin (82%), streptomycin (64%), and chloramphenicol 
(58%), amoxicillin (53%), cefotaxime (50%), tetracycline (49%), neomycin (38%) 
and trimethoprim + sulphamethoxazole (38%). Conversely, all the isolates were 
susceptible against netilmicin, and susceptibility against the other antibiotics 
follows the order: meropenem (94%), gentamicin (88%), imipenem (79%), amikacin 
(70%), ciprofloxacin (70%), norfloxacin (59%), trimethoprim (56%) and 
ceftazidine (56%). The multiple antibiotic resistance indices of the organism 
were higher than the accepted threshold of 0.2. The incidence of 11 
antimicrobial resistance determinants were obtained as follows: [sulphonamides; 
(sulI (18%), sulII (20%), dfr1 (70%), dfr(18) (5%)), [beta-lactams; (ampC 37%)], 
[tetracyclines; (tetA (78%), tetE (57%)], [phenicols; (catII (16%), cmlA1 (11%)] 
and [aminoglycosides; (aphA2 (36%) and strA (67%)]. Pearson chi-square exact 
test revealed positive associations among tetA, tetE, sullI and catII and tetA 
genes. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report on the incidence 
and antibiogram fingerprint of P. shigelloides in these freshwater resources and 
we conclude that these rivers are important reservoirs of multiple antimicrobial 
resistant biotypes of this organism, and consequently a threat to public health.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2019.02.062
PMID: 30776635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Clin Exp Allergy. 2005 Sep;35(9):1234-42. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2222.2005.02317.x.

Diagnosing immediate reactions to cephalosporins.

Romano A(1), Guéant-Rodriguez RM, Viola M, Amoghly F, Gaeta F, Nicolas JP, 
Guéant JL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Geriatrics, UCSC-Allergy Unit, Complesso 
Integrato Columbus, Via G. Moscati 31, 00168 Rome, Italy. 
columbus.romano@linet.it

BACKGROUND: After penicillins, cephalosporins are the betalactams that most 
often induce IgE-mediated reactions. The development of diagnostic tests has 
been delayed, however, because the cephalosporin allergenic determinants have 
not been properly identified.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the usefulness of skin tests, serum specific IgE assays, 
and challenges in diagnosing immediate reactions to cephalosporins and to 
clarify the pathogenic mechanism of such reactions.
METHODS: We studied 76 adults with immediate reactions to cephalosporins, mainly 
ceftriaxone, cefotaxime, and ceftazidime. Skin tests and serum specific IgE 
assays were performed for culprit cephalosporins and cefaclor, as well as for 
penicillin, amoxicillin, and ampicillin. Some subjects with negative results 
underwent challenges and re-evaluations. Responses to cephalosporins other than 
the culprit ones were also studied.
RESULTS: In the first allergologic work-up, an IgE-mediated hypersensitivity to 
penicillins and/or cephalosporins was diagnosed in 63 (82.9%) of the 76 patients 
on the basis of skin-test and/or specific IgE assay positivity. Of the 13 
negative patients, eight accepted challenges and underwent re-evaluations. 
Considering both first- and second-evaluation results, the skin-test-positivity 
rate increased from 76.3% to 85.5% and that of sepharose-radioimmunoassay 
positivity from 67.1% to 74.3%. Overall, an IgE-mediated hypersensitivity was 
diagnosed in 70 patients (in seven after retesting). On the basis of skin-test 
and CAP-FEIA results, we classified our 76 patients into five groups: group A 
(three patients), positive only to penicillin reagents; B (17), positive to both 
cephalosporin and penicillin reagents; C (24), positive to more than one 
cephalosporin; D (21), positive only to the responsible cephalosporin; E (11) 
negative to skin tests and CAP-FEIA, including five sepharose-radioimmunoassay 
positive.
CONCLUSIONS: Most immediate reactions to cephalosporins appear to be 
IgE-mediated. Cephalosporin skin testing and sepharose-radioimmunoassay are 
useful tools for evaluating these reactions. Cephalosporin IgE-mediated 
hypersensitivity may be a transient condition; therefore, allergologic exams 
should be repeated in patients with negative initial allergologic work-ups, 
including challenges.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2222.2005.02317.x
PMID: 16164453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Syst Rev. 2024 Oct 14;13(1):259. doi: 10.1186/s13643-024-02671-5.

Protocol for a systematic review and meta-analysis of interventions aimed at 
delabeling low-risk penicillin allergies with consideration for sex and gender.

Maximos M(1)(2), Elsayed S(3)(4), Maxwell C(1), Houle SKD(1), Pelletier R(1), 
McConnell B(1), Pylypiak A(4), Gamble JM(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, University of Waterloo, Kitchener, ON, N2G 2C5, Canada.
(2)Women's College Hospital, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(3)Departments of Medicine and Pathology and Laboratory Medicine and 
Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Schulich School of Medicine and Dentistry, 
London, ON, Canada.
(4)Woodstock General Hospital, Woodstock, ON, Canada.
(5)School of Pharmacy, University of Waterloo, Kitchener, ON, N2G 2C5, Canada. 
jm.gamble@uwaterloo.ca.

BACKGROUND: Approximately, 10% of people report a penicillin allergy; however, 
more than 90% can safely undergo delabeling after a detailed history, oral 
challenge, or other investigations such as penicillin skin testing (PST). 
Although PST is the gold standard, the results can be heterogeneous, and 
awaiting specialist assessment may take an inordinate amount of time. Therefore, 
oral provocation challenge has become acceptable for individuals with low-risk 
penicillin allergy histories. There also appears to be an association with 
increased prevalence of adverse drug reaction reporting in female individuals, 
which may translate to penicillin allergy prevalence; however, the evidence has 
not been assessed through a sex and gender lens. This systematic review will 
identify and synthesize the findings from studies that report measures of 
effectiveness and safety of interventions aimed at delabeling penicillin 
allergies in low-risk individuals. Information related to sex and gender will be 
extracted, where available, to understand potential differences in allergy 
reporting and patient outcomes.
METHODS: The Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions and the 
Centre for Review and Dissemination's Guidance for Undertaking Reviews in Health 
Care will be used as frameworks for conducting this systematic review. The 
literature search will be conducted by a medical librarian (B. M. M.) and will 
consist of a search strategy to identify and retrieve published studies that 
meet our inclusion criteria. Studies that require penicillin skin testing (PST) 
as a step prior to other interventions will be excluded. Integrated knowledge 
translation involving co-design was carried out for this systematic review 
protocol creation. Data extraction will be conducted at four levels: (1) study 
level, (2) patient level, (3) intervention level, and (4) outcome level. A 
narrative descriptive synthesis of results and risk of bias of all included 
studies will be provided, and, if relevant, a meta-analysis will be performed.
DISCUSSION: The dissemination of findings from this knowledge synthesis to 
various stakeholders is intended to inform on options for evidence-based 
interventions to aid in delabeling penicillin allergies in individuals with a 
low risk of experiencing a hypersensitivity reaction. Detailed reporting on the 
characteristics of delabeling interventions as well as the effectiveness of 
similar interventions will benefit policy makers considering the implementation 
of a penicillin allergy delabeling protocol. Additionally, findings from this 
systematic review will report on the current evidence regarding the role of sex 
and gender in both the prevalence and outcomes associated with the presence of 
penicillin allergies.
SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION: PROSPERO CRD42022336457.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13643-024-02671-5
PMCID: PMC11472534
PMID: 39402648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


505. Biochem Res Int. 2024 Jun 21;2024:3713620. doi: 10.1155/2024/3713620. 
eCollection 2024.

In Vitro Antibacterial, Antioxidant, Cytotoxicity Activity, and In Silico 
Molecular Modelling of Compounds Isolated from Roots of Hydnora johannis.

Degfie T(1)(2), Endale M(3), Aliye M(1), Eswaramoorthy R(4), Nefo Duke T(5), 
Dekebo A(1)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Chemistry, Adama Science and Technology University, 
P.O. Box 1888, Adama, Ethiopia.
(2)Department of Chemistry, Dire Dawa University, P.O. Box 1362, Dire Dawa, 
Ethiopia.
(3)Traditional and Modern Medicine Research and Development Directorate, Armauer 
Hansen Research Institute, P.O. Box 1005, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
(4)Department of Biomaterials, Saveetha Dental College and Hospitals, Saveetha 
Institute of Medical and Technical Sciences, Saveetha University, Chennai 600 
077, India.
(5)Department of Materials Science and Engineering, National Taiwan University 
of Science and Technology, Taipei, Taiwan.
(6)Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Adama Science and Technology 
University, P.O. Box 1888, Adama, Ethiopia.

The plant Hydnora johannis has been utilized in folk medicine. Analyzing 
phytochemical composition of dichloromethane/methanol (1 : 1) root part of 
Hydnora johannis gave oleic acid (1), caffeic acid-2-hydroxynonylester (2), 
catechin (3), and a pregnane derivative (4). NMR spectroscopy was used to 
characterize compounds 1-3, while compound 4 was identified through GC-MS 
analysis and literature comparison. The cytotoxicity of extracts from roots of 
H. johannis was conducted against MCF-7 cell lines (human breast cancer) by MTT 
assay. According to the cytotoxicity study, n-hexane extract exhibited a high 
level of toxicity with 28.9 ± 5.6% cell viability. Antibacterial activity was 
tested against Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Staphylococcus aureus, 
and Streptococcus pyogen. The highest bacterial growth mean inhibition zone was 
measured for catechin (3) (13.72 ± 0.05 mm)) against P. aeruginosa at 0.25 mg/mL 
and acceptable related to standard. Antioxidant activity was studied by the DPPH 
assay. Based on the data from the antioxidant study, DCM/MeOH extract (70.32%) 
and catechin (3) showed good antioxidant activity (65.61%) (IC50 0.25 μg/mL) 
relative to that of the positive control (78.21%, IC50 0.014 μg/mL) at 
12.5 μg/mL. In each docking pose, catechin (3) scored higher binding affinity of 
-7.9, -7.2, and -6.4 kcal/mol towards PqsA, DNA gyraseB, and S. aureus PK, 
respectively, compared to amoxicillin (-8.1, -6.1, and -6.4 kcal/mol). All five 
Lipinski rules were obeyed by compounds 1-3, which showed an acceptable drug 
resemblance. The lipophilicity was computed as less than five (1.47-4.01) 
indicating a lipophilic property. Catechin (3) obeys Veber's rule implying its 
good oral bioavailability. Binding affinity scores of catechin (3)-protein 
interactions are in line with those from in vitro tests, indicating its 
potential antibacterial effect. The obtained cytotoxicity and antibacterial 
activity results support the utilization of H. johannis in folk medicine.

Copyright © 2024 Teshome Degfie et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2024/3713620
PMCID: PMC11213641
PMID: 38948887

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no conflicts 
of interest.


506. Cases J. 2009 Jan 22;2(1):76. doi: 10.1186/1757-1626-2-76.

Glandular fever and pulmonary artery thrombosis in a paraplegic patient, who had 
undergone splenectomy for splenic trauma sustained along with spinal cord 
injury: misdiagnosed initially as urine infection and later as lymphoma when CT 
scan revealed enlarged lymph nodes: a case report.

Vaidyanathan S(1), Soni BM, Hughes PL, O'Brien D, Oo T, Aung W.

Author information:
(1)Regional Spinal Injuries Centre, District General Hospital, Southport, PR8 
6PN, UK. S.Vaidyanathan@southportandormskirk.nhs.uk.

BACKGROUND: A 36-year-old male sustained fracture of first lumbar vertebra, 
splenic tear and paraplegia in a motorcycle accident in 2001; splenectomy was 
performed.
CASE PRESENTATION: In 2008, he presented with temperature and feeling rough. 
With a diagnosis of urine infection, he was prescribed ciprofloxacin, followed 
by trimethoprim, amoxicillin, and gentamicin, as temperature did not subside. 
White cell count was 21.2 x 109/L; lymphocytes were 13.05 x 109/L (1.00 - 4.00). 
Therefore, computerised tomography (CT) of chest and abdomen was performed. 
Thrombus was present in pulmonary arteries bilaterally involving the lobar and 
segmental branches. Enlarged lymph nodes were seen in axillae, chest, abdomen 
and inguinal regions. Radiological diagnosis was lymphoma. Cell marker showed an 
excess of large granular lymphocytes and activated lymphocytes. The Glandular 
Fever Slide Test was positive. Subsequently, Paul Bunnell test was also 
positive. Epstein Barr virus serology was consistent with recent Epstein Barr 
virus infection. Antibiotic was omitted; enoxaparin was prescribed for pulmonary 
artery thrombosis.
CONCLUSION: Learning points from this case: (1) Although routine administration 
of antibiotic to a spinal cord injury patient with pyrexia may be acceptable in 
outpatient setting, other possibilities such as infection by multi-drug 
resistant organism, viral infection, venous or, arterial thrombosis should be 
considered if a patient does not respond promptly to antibacterial therapy. (2) 
When full blood count showed lymphocytosis (comprising > 50% of white blood 
cells) with atypical morphology, lymphocyte surface markers, Paul Bunnell test, 
and Epstein Barr virus serology should be performed. These tests would have led 
to a diagnosis of infectious mononucleosis, and abdominal imaging studies could 
have been avoided. (3) Lymphoid hyperplasia is the hallmark of infectious 
mononucleosis; therefore, we should have suspected glandular fever rather than 
lymphoma when CT scan revealed enlarged lymph nodes in abdomen, mediastinum, 
axillae and inguinal regions in this patient, who had lymphocytosis with 
atypical morphology. (4) A soft tissue mass, situated inferior to left 
hemidiaphragm in this asplenic patient, was misinterpreted as lymph nodes; 
review of CT led to the correct diagnosis of splenunculus. (5) Acute infection 
with Epstein Barr virus may lead to transient induction of anti-phospholipid 
antibodies, which can cause vascular thrombosis. (6) This case illustrates the 
value of reviewing test results and discussion with senior doctors, as these 
measures help to recognize medical errors and improve patient care.

DOI: 10.1186/1757-1626-2-76
PMCID: PMC2635124
PMID: 19161590


507. J Chromatogr B Analyt Technol Biomed Life Sci. 2017 Aug 15;1060:138-143. doi: 
10.1016/j.jchromb.2017.06.014. Epub 2017 Jun 8.

Simultaneous determination of nine β-lactam antibiotics in human plasma by an 
ultrafast hydrophilic-interaction chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry.

Abdulla A(1), Bahmany S(2), Wijma RA(3), van der Nagel BCH(2), Koch BCP(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hospital Pharmacy, Erasmus University Medical Center, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands. Electronic address: a.abdulla@erasmusmc.nl.
(2)Department of Hospital Pharmacy, Erasmus University Medical Center, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Medical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases, Erasmus 
University Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Contemporary β-lactam antibiotic dosing is debatable in severely ill patients, 
since the occurrence of pathophysiological changes in critical illness can 
result in great inter-individual variability. Therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) 
is a commonly used dosing strategy to optimize exposure and thereby minimize 
toxicity and maximize the efficacy. Currently, TDM of β-lactam antibiotics is 
rarely performed, due to poor availability in clinical practice. We describe an 
ultrafast Hydrophilic-Interaction Chromatography (HILIC) based UPLC-MS/MS method 
for the determination of amoxicillin, benzylpenicillin, cefotaxime, cefuroxime, 
ceftazidime, flucloxacillin, imipenem, meropenem and piperacillin in human 
plasma. This method involves simple sample preparation steps and was 
comprehensively validated according to standard FDA guidelines. For all 
analytes, mean accuracy and precision values were within the acceptance value. 
The lower and upper limits of quantification were found to be sufficient to 
cover the therapeutic range for all antibiotics. Finally, the method was 
successfully applied in a large pharmacokinetic study performed in the intensive 
care setting, and the feasibility of the analytical procedure was demonstrated 
in routine clinical practice. To the best of our knowledge, we report here the 
first HILIC-based UPLC-MS/MS assay for the determination of β-lactam antibiotics 
in human plasma. This simple, sensitive and ultrafast assay requires 
small-volume samples and can easily be implemented in clinical laboratories to 
promote the TDM of β-lactam antibiotics.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jchromb.2017.06.014
PMID: 28618388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. J Appl Microbiol. 2020 Oct;129(4):916-925. doi: 10.1111/jam.14682. Epub 2020 May 
26.

Understanding the risk of emerging bacterial resistance to over the counter 
antibiotics in topical sore throat medicines.

Wesgate R(1), Evangelista C(1), Atkinson R(2), Shepard A(3), Adegoke O(2), 
Maillard JY(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy & Pharmaceutical Sciences, Cardiff University, Cardiff, 
UK.
(2)Reckitt Benckiser, Hull, UK.
(3)Reckitt Benckiser, Slough, UK.

AIMS: The aims of this study were to explore the development of bacterial 
resistance and cross-resistance in four common human pathogens following 
realistic exposure to antibiotics found in over-the-counter (OTC) sore throat 
medicines: gramicidin, neomycin, bacitracin and tyrothricin.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Bacterial exposure to in-use (concentration in the product 
before use) and diluted concentration (i.e. during use) of antibiotic where 
conducted in broth for 24 h or until growth was visible. The changes in 
bacterial susceptibility profile before and after exposure was determined using 
standardized ISO microdilution broth. Antibiotic testing was performed according 
to EUCAST guidelines. We demonstrated that test bacteria were able to survive 
exposure to the in-use concentrations of some antibiotics used in OTC medicines. 
Exposure to during use concentrations of bacitracin resulted in stable increase 
in minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC) (>8-fold) in Staphylococcus aureus and 
Acinetobacter baumannii. Exposure to tyrothricin resulted in a stable increase 
in MIC (2·4-fold) in Klebsiella pneumoniae, and exposure to neomycin resulted in 
a stable increase MIC (5000-fold higher than the baseline) in Streptococcus 
pyogenes. Clinical cross-resistance to other antibiotics (ciprofloxacin, fusidic 
acid, gentamicin, cefpodoxime, amoxicillin/clavulanic acid and cefotaxime) was 
also demonstrated following exposure to bacitracin or tyrothricin. Bacitracin 
exposure lead to a stable bacterial resistance after 10 passages.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that OTC antibiotic medicines have the 
potential to drive resistance and cross-resistance in vitro.
SIGNIFICANCE AND IMPACT OF THE STUDY: Tackling antibiotic resistance is a high 
worldwide priority. It is widely accepted that the overuse and misuse of 
antibiotics increase the risk of the development and spread of antibiotic 
resistance within communities. A number of OTC sore throat products, widely 
available across the world for topical use in respiratory indications, contain 
locally delivered antibiotics. Our findings showed that these antibiotics in OTC 
medicines present a risk for emerging cross-resistance in a number of bacterial 
respiratory pathogens.

© 2020 The Authors. Journal of Applied Microbiology published by John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd on behalf of Society for Applied Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1111/jam.14682
PMID: 32352619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. J Clin Microbiol. 2010 Dec;48(12):4534-40. doi: 10.1128/JCM.01073-10. Epub 2010 
Oct 27.

Antimicrobial susceptibility testing and profiling of Nocardia species and other 
aerobic actinomycetes from South Africa: comparative evaluation of broth 
microdilution versus the Etest.

Lowman W(1), Aithma N.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health Sciences, University of the Witwatersrand, 7 York Avenue, 
Parktown, 2193, Johannesburg, South Africa. warren.lowman@wits.ac.za

Nocardiosis is an underrecognized clinical entity in South Africa, for which 
interspecies epidemiological and clinical differences are poorly understood. The 
taxonomical state of flux and the lack of a simple antimicrobial susceptibility 
testing method are partly responsible. Definitive identification is molecularly 
based, which further complicates the study of this ubiquitous organism, as this 
methodology is beyond the scope of most routine diagnostic laboratories. The 
Etest methodology has been proposed as an alternative to the reference broth 
microdilution method, although there have been a limited number of comparative 
studies. We profiled 51 clinical isolates of aerobic actinomycetes, including 39 
Nocardia species, using sequence-based (16S rRNA) identification. Broth 
microdilution and Etests were done concurrently on all isolates. The overall 
level of categorical and essential agreement for broth microdilution and Etest 
for the Nocardia isolates ranged from 67.5 to 100% and 46.2 to 81.6%, 
respectively. Very major errors were seen with amikacin, 
amoxicillin-clavulanate, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, and imipenem. For 
Nocardia species, uniform susceptibility to co-trimoxazole, amikacin, and 
linezolid was demonstrated, with a 48.8% susceptibility rate to imipenem. 
Nocardia farcinica (20.5%) and Nocardia cyriacigeorgica (15.4%) were the most 
commonly identified species among the 82% of isolates identified to species 
level using 16S rRNA sequences. Furthermore, drug susceptibility patterns 
demonstrated limited concordance with species identification. Our results 
suggest that, in a routine diagnostic setting, the Etest is not an acceptable 
alternative to the reference method of broth microdilution for antimicrobial 
susceptibility testing. Given the diversity and limited understanding of this 
group of organisms, further widespread evaluation of clinical isolates, from 
both clinical and diagnostic perspectives, is warranted.

DOI: 10.1128/JCM.01073-10
PMCID: PMC3008459
PMID: 20980572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Medicine (Baltimore). 2023 Aug 25;102(34):e34968. doi: 
10.1097/MD.0000000000034968.

Group A Streptococcus dysgalactiae subspecies equisimilis vertebral 
osteomyelitis accompanied by progressive atlantoaxial subluxation: A case report 
and literature review.

Toyoshima H(1)(2), Tanigawa M(3), Ishiguro C(2)(4), Tanaka H(1), Nakanishi Y(1), 
Sakabe S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, Japanese Red Cross Ise Hospital, Mie, 
Japan.
(2)Infection Prevention and Control Office, Japanese Red Cross Ise Hospital, 
Mie, Japan.
(3)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Japanese Red Cross Ise Hospital, Mie, 
Japan.
(4)Department of Medical Technology, Japanese Red Cross Ise Hospital, Mie, 
Japan.

RATIONALE: Clinically, vertebral osteomyelitis commonly occurs in 
immunocompromised individuals, such as people with diabetes, immunosuppression, 
chronic liver disease, and malignancy. Microbiologically, vertebral 
osteomyelitis is commonly caused by Staphylococcus aureus; however, 
Streptococcus dysgalactiae subspecies equisimilis (SDSE) may also potentially 
cause vertebral osteomyelitis, albeit rarely. Since no case reports have 
documented the occurrence of SDSE cervical osteomyelitis accompanied by 
progressive atlantoaxial subluxation, its clinical characteristics remain 
uncertain. Herein, we report the first case of progressive atlantoaxial 
subluxation in addition to cervical osteomyelitis due to septic atlantoaxial 
arthritis caused by SDSE in an immunocompetent individual, and provide a review 
of the relevant literature.
PATIENT CONCERNS: A 63-year-old man with hypertension but no history of trauma 
or musculoskeletal disorders presented with worsening neck pain for 1 month 
without fever. Physical examination revealed neck pain due to neck retroflexion 
and tenderness with swelling of the upper cervical spine. No neurological 
deficit was observed. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed low-intensity areas on 
a T1-weighted image and high-intensity areas on a short tau inversion recovery 
image at the C2, C5, and C6 vertebral bodies with atlantoaxial subluxation. Two 
sets of blood culture tests (aerobic and anaerobic) were performed.
DIAGNOSES: The anaerobic blood culture bottle showed the presence of 
beta-hemolytic pyrrolidonyl arylamidase-negative SDSE expressing Lancefield 
group A antiserum. Hence, the patient was diagnosed with SDSE cervical 
osteomyelitis with atlantoaxial subluxation; intensive intravenous ampicillin 
(2 g every 6 hours) - which is effective against SDSE - was administered.
INTERVENTIONS: Posterior fusion (occipital bone, C4) was performed on day 33 
because a follow-up magnetic resonance imaging on day 31 revealed progression of 
atlantoaxial subluxation with thickened atlantodental soft tissue.
OUTCOMES: The patient's neck pain was completely relieved after treatment with 
intravenous ampicillin for 6 weeks, followed by oral amoxicillin (1500 mg) daily 
for an additional 4 weeks. The patient did not experience recurrence or sequelae 
during the 2-year follow-up period.
LESSONS: SDSE expressing Lancefield group A antiserum can cause afebrile 
vertebral osteomyelitis and progressive atlantoaxial subluxation due to the 
occurrence of septic atlantoaxial arthritis in immunocompetent individuals. 
Spinal instrumentation for vertebral osteomyelitis may be acceptable after 6 
weeks of antimicrobial therapy.

Copyright © 2023 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000034968
PMCID: PMC10470678
PMID: 37653834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no funding and conflicts of 
interest to disclose.


511. Hosp Pract (1995). 2018 Aug;46(3):97-102. doi: 10.1080/21548331.2018.1450605. 
Epub 2018 Mar 23.

Prophylactic antibiotics to prevent surgical site infections in Botswana: 
findings and implications.

Mwita JC(1), Souda S(2), Magafu MGMD(3), Massele A(4), Godman B(5)(6)(7), 
Mwandri M(8).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of Medicine , University of 
Botswana , Gaborone , Botswana.
(2)b Department of Pathology, Faculty of Medicine , University of Botswana , 
Gaborone , Botswana.
(3)c Department of Global Health , University of Washington , Blantyre , Malawi.
(4)d Department of Biomedical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine , University of 
Botswana , Gaborone , Botswana.
(5)e Division of Clinical Pharmacology, Karolinska Institute , Karolinska 
University Hospital Huddinge , Stockholm , Sweden.
(6)f Strathclyde Institute of Pharmacy and Biomedical Sciences , Strathclyde 
University , Glasgow , UK.
(7)g Health Economics Centre , Liverpool University Management School , 
Liverpool , UK.
(8)h School of Clinical Medicine , University of KwaZulu-Natal , Durban , South 
Africa.

OBJECTIVES: Antibiotic prophylaxis in surgery is known to reduce the rate of 
surgical site infections (SSI) as well as shorten hospital stay. However, there 
is currently a scarcity of data on antibiotic prophylaxis and SSIs among African 
countries including Botswana. Consequently, this study aimed to address this.
METHODS: A prospective study involving 400 patients was carried out at a leading 
tertiary hospital in Botswana from 2014-2015. Patients' demographic information, 
type of surgery performed and peri-operative use of antibiotics were documented. 
All enrolled patients were followed-up for 30 days post discharge to fully 
document the incidence of SSIs.
RESULTS: Median age of patients was 35.5 (25 - 50) years, with 52% female. There 
were 35.8% emergency and 64.2% elective surgeries. The most common operations 
were exploratory laparotomy (25%), appendectomy (18.3%), excision, and 
mastectomy (8%). Antibiotics were given in 73.3% of patients, mainly 
postoperatively (58.3%). The most commonly prescribed antibiotics were 
cefotaxime (80.7%), metronidazole (63.5%), cefradine (13.6%) and 
amoxicillin/clavulanate (11.6%). The incidence of SSI was 9%. The most common 
organisms were Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Staphylococcus aureus, and 
coagulase-negative staphylococci.
CONCLUSION: The rate of SSI is a concern, and may be related to inappropriate 
antibiotic prophylaxis given post operatively. Interventions are in place to 
decrease SSI rates to acceptable levels in this leading hospital by improving 
for instance infection prevention practices including the timing of antibiotic 
prophylaxis. Research is also ongoing among other hospitals in Botswana to 
reduce SSI rates building on these findings.

DOI: 10.1080/21548331.2018.1450605
PMID: 29521136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. BMJ Open. 2019 Feb 22;8(11):e025810. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2018-025810.

Impact of selective reporting of antibiotic susceptibility test results in 
urinary tract infections in the outpatient setting: a protocol for a pragmatic, 
prospective quasi-experimental trial.

Binda F(1)(2), Fougnot S(3), De Monchy P(4), Fagot-Campagna A(5), Pulcini 
C(1)(6), Thilly N(1)(7); ANTIBIO-CIBLÉ Scientific Committee.

Collaborators: Binda F, Bourgue C, Campagna AF, Fougnot S, Kivits J, Lozniewski 
A, Mauffrey V, Monchy P, Motyka G, Pulcini C, Rabaud C, Thilly N, Varon E.

Author information:
(1)Université de Lorraine, APEMAC, Nancy, France.
(2)Département des sciences cliniques et biomédicales «Luigi Sacco», Université 
de Milan, Milan, Italy.
(3)Laboratoire ATOUTBIO, Nancy, France.
(4)Laboratoire EVOLAB, Thionville, France.
(5)Caisse nationale d'Assurance maladie, Paris, France.
(6)Université de Lorraine, CHRU-Nancy, Service des maladies infectieuses et 
tropicales, Nancy, France.
(7)Université de Lorraine, CHRU-Nancy, Plateforme d'Aide à la Recherche 
Clinique, Nancy, France.

INTRODUCTION: Antibiotic resistance is a serious and increasing worldwide threat 
to global public health. One of antibiotic stewardship programmes' objectives 
are to reduce inappropriate broad-spectrum antibiotics' prescription. Selective 
reporting of antibiotic susceptibility test (AST) results, which consists of 
reporting to prescribers only few (n=5-6) antibiotics, preferring first-line and 
narrow-spectrum agents, is one possible strategy advised in recommendations. 
However, selective reporting of AST has never been evaluated using an 
experimental design.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: This study is a pragmatic, prospective, multicentre, 
controlled (selective reporting vs usual complete reporting of AST), 
before-after (year 2019 vs 2017) study. Selective reporting of AST is scheduled 
to be implemented from September 2018 in the ATOUTBIO group of 21 laboratories 
for all Escherichia coli identified in urine cultures in adult outpatients, and 
to be compared with the usual complete AST performed in the EVOLAB group of 20 
laboratories. The main objective is to assess the impact of selective reporting 
of AST for E. coli-positive urine cultures in the outpatient setting on the 
prescription of broad-spectrum antibiotics frequently used for urinary tract 
infections (amoxicillin-clavulanate, third-generation cephalosporins and 
fluoroquinolones). The primary end point is the after (2019)-before (2017) 
difference in prescription rates for the previously mentioned 
antibiotics/classes that will be compared between the two laboratory groups, 
using linear regression models. Secondary objectives are to evaluate the 
feasibility of selective reporting of AST implementation by French laboratories 
and their acceptability by organising focus groups and individual 
semi-structured interviews with general practitioners and laboratory 
professionals.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: This protocol was approved by French national ethics 
committees (Comité d'expertise pour les recherches, les études et les 
évaluations dans le domaine de la santé (TPS 29064) and Commission Nationale de 
l'Informatique et des Libertés (Décision DR-2018-141)). Findings of this study 
will be widely disseminated through conference presentations, reports, 
factsheets and academic publications and generalisation will be further 
discussed.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NTC03612297.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2018. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2018-025810
PMCID: PMC6278878
PMID: 30798294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


513. Microbiologyopen. 2019 Jan;8(1):e00618. doi: 10.1002/mbo3.618. Epub 2018 Mar 25.

Most commensally bacterial strains in human milk of healthy mothers display 
multiple antibiotic resistance.

Huang MS(1), Cheng CC(2), Tseng SY(3), Lin YL(4), Lo HM(5), Chen PW(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine Laboratory, St. Mary's Hospital Luodong, Yilan, 
Taiwan.
(2)Laboratory Animal Service Center, Office of Research and Development, China 
Medical University, Taichung, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Veterinary Medicine, National Chung Hsing University, Taichung, 
Taiwan.
(4)Department of Obstetrics Central, St. Mary's Hospital Luodong, Yilan, Taiwan.
(5)Department of Nursing, St. Mary's Junior College of Medicine, Nursing and 
Management, Yilan, Taiwan.

Recent reports have shown that food-borne or commensal bacteria can function as 
reservoirs of antibiotic resistance. However, the antibiotic susceptibility of 
bacterial isolates of most milk samples or the total bacterial counts (TBC) in 
human milk from healthy donors, are not fully understood in Taiwan. Thus, five 
healthy mothers were randomly recruited each month, and totally 30 mothers 
without any symptoms of infection were recruited over 6 months. Milk samples 
were then harvested and analyzed immediately after collection. The antibiotic 
susceptibility was analyzed in bacteria isolated from milk samples using nine 
clinically relevant antibiotics, such as oxacillin, ampicillin, cephalothin, 
amoxicillin, ciprofloxacin, erythromycin, clindamycin, gentamicin, and 
oxytetracycline. The Staphylococcus strains (48 isolates) found in milk resisted 
to 48.6 ± 20.1% selected antibiotics. Streptococcus-related isolates (8 
isolates) exhibited resistance to 41.7 ± 26.4% selected antibiotics. 
Acinetobacter isolates (5 isolates) were resistant to 66.7 ± 13.6% antibiotics, 
and Enterococcus isolates (5 isolates) were resistant to 73.3 ± 6.1% tested 
antibiotics. Rothia-related isolates (4 isolates) were resisted to 58.2 ± 31.9% 
of tested antibiotics. In contrast, Corynebacterium isolates (5 isolates) were 
sensitive to 66%-100% of selected antibiotics. Furthermore, the TBC ranged from 
40 to 710,000 CFU/ml, implying a wide spectrum of bacteria in milk from healthy 
mothers. Despite this, all milk donors were healthy during sampling, and they 
did not show any symptoms related to mastitis or subclinical mastitis. According 
to the previously described TBC criteria for the use of donated human milk, only 
73% of the current milk samples could be accepted for the milk bank. In 
conclusion, the majority of the isolated bacterial strains from current human 
milk samples are multiresistant strains. In milk samples for preterm infants or 
milk banks, higher TBC levels or potentially antibiotic-resistant bacteria in 
some milk samples have supported people using approaches to disinfect human milk 
partially.

© 2018 The Authors. MicrobiologyOpen published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/mbo3.618
PMCID: PMC6341030
PMID: 29577668 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. J Antimicrob Chemother. 2015 Aug;70(8):2376-81. doi: 10.1093/jac/dkv089. Epub 
2015 Apr 7.

First-line eradication rates comparing two shortened non-bismuth quadruple 
regimens against Helicobacter pylori: an open-label, randomized, multicentre 
clinical trial.

Cuadrado-Lavín A(1), Salcines-Caviedes JR(2), Diaz-Perez A(2), Carrascosa MF(3), 
Ochagavía M(4), Fernandez-Forcelledo JL(5), Cobo M(2), Fernández-Gil P(1), 
Ayestarán B(6), Sánchez B(7), Campo C(8), Llorca J(9), Lorenzo S(10), Illaro 
A(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Hospital Universitario Marqués de 
Valdecilla-Instituto de Investigación Marqués de Valdecilla (IDIVAL), Avda de 
Valdecilla s/n, 39008, Santander, Cantabria, Spain.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, Hospital Comarcal de Laredo-IDIVAL, Avda 
Derechos Humanos s/n, 39770 Laredo, Cantabria, Spain.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, Hospital of Laredo-IDIVAL, Avda Derechos 
Humanos s/n, 39770 Laredo, Cantabria, Spain miguel.carrascosa@scsalud.es.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, Hospital Universitario Marqués de Valdecilla-IDIVAL, 
Avda de Valdecilla s/n, 39008, Santander, Cantabria, Spain.
(5)Department of Gastroenterology, Hospital Comarcal Sierrallana, Barrio Ganzo, 
39300 Torrelavega, Cantabria, Spain.
(6)Department of Pharmacy, Hospital Comarcal de Laredo-IDIVAL, Avda Derechos 
Humanos s/n, 39770 Laredo, Cantabria, Spain.
(7)Clinical Pharmacology Service-Clinical Trial Phase I Unit, Hospital 
Universitario Marqués de Valdecilla-IDIVAL, Avda de Valdecilla s/n, 39008 
Santander, Cantabria, Spain.
(8)Clinical Trial Agency, IDIVAL, Edificio IDIVAL, Avda Cardenal Herrera Oria 
s/n, 39011 Santander, Cantabria, Spain.
(9)Group of Epidemiology and Computational Biology, University of 
Cantabria-IDIVAL, Santander, Cantabria, Spain Consorcio de Investigación 
Biomédica en Red de Epidemiología y Salud Pública, Spain.
(10)Department of Pharmacy, Hospital Comarcal Sierrallana, Barrio Ganzo, 39300 
Torrelavega, Cantabria, Spain.

OBJECTIVES: Helicobacter pylori eradication remains a challenge. 
Non-bismuth-based quadruple regimens (NBQR) have shown high eradication rates 
(ER) elsewhere that need to be locally confirmed. The objective of this study 
was to compare the first-line ER of a hybrid therapy (20 mg of omeprazole twice 
daily and 1 g of amoxicillin twice daily for 10 days, adding 500 mg of 
clarithromycin twice daily and 500 mg of metronidazole every 8 h for the last 5 
days; OA-OACM) with that of a 10 day concomitant regimen consisting of taking 
all four drugs twice daily every day (including 500 mg of metronidazole every 12 
h; OACM). A 10 day arm with standard triple therapy (OAC; 20 mg of omeprazole/12 
h, 1 g of amoxicillin/12 h and 500 mg of clarithromycin/12 h) was included.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Three hundred consecutive patients were randomized 
(1: 2: 2) into one of the three following regimens: (i) OAC (60); (ii) OA-OACM 
(120); and (iii) OACM (120). Eradication was generally confirmed by a 
[(13)C]urea breath test at least 4 weeks after the end of treatment. Adverse 
events and compliance were assessed. EudraCT: 2011-006258-99.
RESULTS: ITT cure rates were: OAC, 70.0% (42/60) (95% CI: 58.3-81.7); OA-OACM, 
90.8% (109/120) (95% CI: 85.6-96.0); and OACM, 90.0% (107/119) (95% CI: 
84.6-95.4). PP rates were: OAC, 72.4% (42/58) (95% CI: 60.8-84.1); OA-OACM, 
93.9% (108/115) (95% CI: 89.5-98.3); and OACM, 90.3% (102/113) (95% CI: 
84.8-95.8). Both NBQR significantly improved ER compared with OAC (P < 0.01), 
but no differences were seen between them. Mean compliance was elevated [98.0% 
(SD = 9.8)] with no differences between groups. There were more adverse events 
in the quadruple arms (OACM, 65.8%; OA-OACM, 68.6%; OAC, 46.6%; P < 0.05), but 
no significant differences between groups in terms of severity were seen.
CONCLUSIONS: Hybrid and concomitant regimens show good ER against H. pylori 
infection with an acceptable safety profile. They clearly displace OAC as 
first-line regimen in our area.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the British 
Society for Antimicrobial Chemotherapy. All rights reserved. For Permissions, 
please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jac/dkv089
PMID: 25855760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Eur J Obstet Gynecol Reprod Biol. 2019 May;236:1-6. doi: 
10.1016/j.ejogrb.2019.02.021. Epub 2019 Mar 2.

Preterm premature rupture of the membranes: Guidelines for clinical practice 
from the French College of Gynaecologists and Obstetricians (CNGOF).

Schmitz T(1), Sentilhes L(2), Lorthe E(3), Gallot D(4), Madar H(2), Doret-Dion 
M(5), Beucher G(6), Charlier C(7), Cazanave C(8), Delorme P(9), Garabédian 
C(10), Azria E(11), Tessier V(12), Sénat MV(13), Kayem G(14).

Author information:
(1)Service de Gynécologie Obstétrique, Hôpital Robert Debré, AP-HP, Paris, 
France; Université Paris Diderot, Paris, France; Inserm UMR 1153 Equipe de 
recherche en Epidémiologie Obstétricale, Périnatale et Pédiatrique (EPOPé), 
Centre de Recherche Epidémiologie et Statistique Sorbonne Paris Cité, Paris, 
France. Electronic address: thomas.schmitz@aphp.fr.
(2)Service de Gynécologie-Obstétrique, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de 
Bordeaux, Hôpital Pellegrin, Bordeaux, France.
(3)EPIUnit - Institute of Public Health, University of Porto, Rua das Taipas, 
n°135, 4050-600 Porto, Portugal; Inserm UMR 1153 Equipe de recherche en 
Epidémiologie Obstétricale, Périnatale et Pédiatrique (EPOPé), Centre de 
Recherche Epidémiologie et Statistique Sorbonne Paris Cité, Paris, France.
(4)R2D2-EA7281, Université d'Auvergne, Faculté de Médecine, Clermont-Ferrand, 
France; Pôle Femme Et Enfant, CHU Estaing, Clermont-Ferrand, France.
(5)Service de gynécologie obstétrique, hospices civils de Lyon, hôpital 
Femme-Mère-Enfant, Bron, France.
(6)Service de Gynécologie Obstétrique et Médecine de la Reproduction, CHU de 
Caen, France.
(7)Université Paris Descartes, Paris, France; Centre d'Infectiologie 
Necker-Pasteur, Institut IMAGINE, France; Service des Maladies Infectieuses et 
Tropicales, Hôpital Necker-Enfants malades, AP-HP, Paris France.
(8)Université de Bordeaux, USC EA 3671, Infections humaines à mycoplasmes et à 
chlamydiae, Bordeaux, France; Service des Maladies Infectieuses et Tropicales, 
Groupe Hospitalier Pellegrin, CHU de Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France.
(9)Université Paris Descartes, Paris, France; DHU Risques et Grossesse, 
Maternité Port Royal, Hôpitaux Universitaires Paris Centre, Hôpital Cochin, 
AP-HP, Paris, France; Inserm UMR 1153 Equipe de recherche en Epidémiologie 
Obstétricale, Périnatale et Pédiatrique (EPOPé), Centre de Recherche 
Epidémiologie et Statistique Sorbonne Paris Cité, Paris, France.
(10)Université de Lille, EA 4489 - Environnement périnatal et croissance, Lille, 
France; CHU Lille, Hôpital Jeanne de Flandre, Clinique d'obstétrique, Lille, 
France.
(11)Université Paris Descartes, Paris, France; Maternité Notre Dame de Bon 
Secours, Groupe Hospitalier Paris Saint-Joseph, DHU Risques et Grossesse, Paris, 
France; Inserm UMR 1153 Equipe de recherche en Epidémiologie Obstétricale, 
Périnatale et Pédiatrique (EPOPé), Centre de Recherche Epidémiologie et 
Statistique Sorbonne Paris Cité, Paris, France.
(12)Collège National des Sages-Femmes, France; DHU Risques et Grossesse, 
Maternité Port Royal, Hôpitaux Universitaires Paris Centre, Hôpital Cochin, 
AP-HP, Paris, France.
(13)Université Paris-Sud, Université de Médecine Paris-Saclay, Le 
Kremlin-Bicêtre, France; Service de Gynécologie Obstétrique, Hôpital Bicêtre, 
AP-HP, Le Kremlin-Bicêtre, France.
(14)Inserm UMR 1153 Equipe de recherche en Epidémiologie Obstétricale, 
Périnatale et Pédiatrique (EPOPé), Centre de Recherche Epidémiologie et 
Statistique Sorbonne Paris Cité, Paris, France; Service de Gynécologie 
Obstétrique, Hôpital Trousseau, AP-HP, Paris, France; Université Pierre et Marie 
Curie, Paris, France.

In France, the frequency of premature rupture of the membranes (PROM) is 2%-3% 
before 37 weeks' gestation (level of evidence [LE] 2) and less than 1% before 34 
weeks (LE2). Preterm delivery and intrauterine infection are the major 
complications of preterm PROM (PPROM) (LE2). Prolongation of the latency period 
is beneficial (LE2). Compared with other causes of preterm delivery, PPROM is 
associated with a clear excess risk of neonatal morbidity and mortality only in 
cases of intrauterine infection, which is linked to higher rates of in utero 
fetal death (LE3), early neonatal infection (LE2), and necrotizing enterocolitis 
(LE2). The diagnosis of PPROM is principally clinical (professional consensus). 
Tests to detect IGFBP-1 or PAMG-1 are recommended in cases of uncertainty 
(professional consensus). Hospitalization is recommended for women diagnosed 
with PPROM (professional consensus). Adequate evidence does not exist to support 
recommendations for or against initial tocolysis (Grade C). If tocolysis is 
prescribed, it should not continue longer than 48 h (Grade C). The 
administration of antenatal corticosteroids is recommended for fetuses with a 
gestational age less than 34 weeks (Grade A) and magnesium sulfate if delivery 
is imminent before 32 weeks (Grade A). The prescription of antibiotic 
prophylaxis at admission is recommended (Grade A) to reduce neonatal and 
maternal morbidity (LE1). Amoxicillin, third-generation cephalosporins, and 
erythromycin (professional consensus) can each be used individually or 
eythromycin and amoxicillin can be combined (professional consensus) for a 
period of 7 days (Grade C). Nonetheless, it is acceptable to stop antibiotic 
prophylaxis when the initial vaginal sample is negative (professional 
consensus). The following are not recommended for antibiotic prophylaxis: 
amoxicillin-clavulanic acid (professional consensus), aminoglycosides, 
glycopeptides, first- or second-generation cephalosporins, clindamycin, or 
metronidazole (professional consensus). Women who are clinically stable after at 
least 48 h of hospital monitoring can be managed at home (professional 
consensus). Monitoring should include checking for clinical and laboratory 
factors suggestive of intrauterine infection (professional consensus). No 
guidelines can be issued about the frequency of this monitoring (professional 
consensus). Adequate evidence does not exist to support a recommendation for or 
against the routine initiation of antibiotic therapy when the monitoring of an 
asymptomatic woman produces a single isolated positive result (e.g., elevated 
CRP, or hyperleukocytosis, or a positive vaginal sample) (professional 
consensus). In cases of intrauterine infection, the immediate intravenous 
administration (Grade B) of antibiotic therapy combining a beta-lactam with an 
aminoglycoside (Grade B) and early delivery of the child are both recommended 
(Grade A). Cesarean delivery of women with intrauterine infections is reserved 
for the standard obstetric indications (professional consensus). Expectant 
management is recommended for uncomplicated PROM before 37 weeks (Grade A), even 
when a sample is positive for Streptococcus B, as long as antibiotic prophylaxis 
begins at admission (professional consensus). Oxytocin and prostaglandins are 
two possible options for the induction of labor in women with PPROM 
(professional consensus).

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejogrb.2019.02.021
PMID: 30870741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Orv Hetil. 2003 Jun 1;144(22):1077-83.

[Eradication of Helicobacter pylori infection in Hungary (1993-2002): a 
meta-analysis].

[Article in Hungarian]

Buzás GM(1).

Author information:
(1)Ferencvárosi Egészségügyi Szolgálat, Gasztroenterológia, Budapest.

INTRODUCTION: Meta-analysis is a useful tool in obtaining sound data in 
evidence-based medicine. The guidelines of eradication have been proposed in the 
I. Maastricht consensus (1996), which was modified in 2000.
AIM OF STUDY: The scope of present paper is the meta-analysis of eradication 
studies performed in Hungary between 1993-2002.
METHODS: Articles/abstracts dealing with eradication, published in peer-reviewed 
Hungarian and international journals, meetings of the Hungarian Society of 
Gastroenterology and its Endoscopic Section and international congresses were 
identified from major databases and by manual search. The data were classified 
into groups based on eradication schedules, type of antibiotic used, and 
provenience of the study. The pooled eradication rates were calculated and 
compared with the international data.
RESULTS: The pooled eradication rate of proton pump inhibitor-based triple 
therapies was 82.9% (confidence interval: 72.1-93.7%); omeprazole, pantoprazole 
and lansoprazole-based therapies given b.i.d. were equally efficient. 
H2-blockers based triple combinations lasting 10-14 days obtained a pooled 
eradication rate of 86.3% (confidence interval: 72.2-99.8%), insignificantly 
higher (p = 0.07) than the rate obtained with proton pump inhibitors. Classical 
triple therapy's (bismuth + 2 antimicrobials) pooled eradication rate is 
significantly lower as that of proton pump inhibitor (p = 0.01) or H2 
blocker-based combinations (p = 0.008). Clarithromycin, nitroimidazoles, 
amoxicillin and doxycyclin-based therapies obtained pooled eradication rates of 
79.4%, 74.7%, 79.3% and 73.0%, respectively. The results obtained in randomized 
controlled trials and university centers were better than those achieved in 
county and urban hospitals.
CONCLUSIONS: The results are in part contrasting with the recommendations of 
European and national consensus. Proton pump inhibitor-based triple regimens are 
proposed as first-line treatment, which is in agreement with our results, but 
H2-blockers based regimens seem to be of same efficacy in open studies, although 
these represent a lower level of evidence. Classical triple therapies, also 
recommended, did not reach acceptable rates of eradication. Antibiotic-based 
analysis did not reflect the local resistance profile. A multicenter, randomized 
Hungarian study is warranted to assess the real efficacy of the eradication 
schedules.

PMID: 12847817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Food Addit Contam Part A Chem Anal Control Expo Risk Assess. 2016 
Jul;33(7):1155-65. doi: 10.1080/19440049.2016.1190236. Epub 2016 Jun 7.

Risk-based approach to developing a national residue sampling plan for testing 
under European Union regulation for veterinary medicinal products and 
coccidiostat feed additives in domestic animal production.

Danaher M(1), Shanahan C(2), Butler F(2), Evans R(3), O'Sullivan D(4), Glynn 
D(5), Camon T(3), Lawlor P(6), O'Keeffe M(3).

Author information:
(1)a Food Safety Department , Teagasc Food Research Centre , Dublin , Ireland.
(2)b UCD School of Biosystems and Food Engineering , University College Dublin , 
Dublin , Ireland.
(3)c Food Science and Standards Division , Food Safety Authority of Ireland , 
Dublin , Ireland.
(4)d Department of Agriculture , Food and the Marine , Celbridge , Ireland.
(5)e Marine Environment and Food Safety Services , Marine Institute , Oranmore , 
Ireland.
(6)f Teagasc, Pig Development Department , Animal and Grassland Research and 
Innovation Centre , Fermoy , Ireland.

A ranking system for veterinary medicinal products and coccidiostat feed 
additives has been developed as a tool to be applied in a risk-based approach to 
the residue testing programme for foods of animal origin in the Irish National 
Residue Control Plan (NRCP). Three characteristics of substances that may occur 
as residues in food are included in the developed risk ranking system: Potency, 
as measured by the acceptable daily intake assigned by the European Medicines 
Agency Committee for Medicinal Products for Veterinary Use, to each substance; 
Usage, as measured by the three factors of Number of Doses, use on Individual 
animals or for Group treatment, and Withdrawal Period; and Residue Occurrence, 
as measured by the number of Non-Compliant Samples in the NRCP. For both Number 
of Doses and Non-Compliant Samples, data for the 5-year period 2008-12 have been 
used. The risk ranking system for substances was developed for beef cattle, 
sheep and goats, pigs, chickens and dairy cattle using a scoring system applied 
to the various parameters described above to give an overall score based on the 
following equation: Potency × Usage (Number of Doses + Individual/Group Use + 
Withdrawal Period) × Residue Occurrence. Applying this risk ranking system, the 
following substances are ranked very highly: antimicrobials such as amoxicillin 
(for all species except pigs), marbofloxacillin (for beef cattle), 
oxytetracycline (for all species except chickens), sulfadiazine with 
trimethoprim (for pigs and chickens) and tilmicosin (for chickens); 
antiparasitic drugs, such as the benzimidazoles triclabendazole (for beef and 
dairy cattle), fenbendazole/oxfendazole (for sheep/goats and dairy cattle) and 
albendazole (for dairy cattle), the avermectin ivermectin (for beef cattle), and 
anti-fluke drugs closantel and rafoxanide (for sheep/goats); the anticoccidials 
monensin, narasin, nicarbazin and toltrazuril (for chickens). The risk ranking 
system described is a relatively simple system designed to provide a reliable 
basis for selecting the veterinary medicinal products and coccidiostat feed 
additives that might be prioritised for residue testing.

DOI: 10.1080/19440049.2016.1190236
PMID: 27189753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. BMC Public Health. 2019 Dec 23;19(1):1721. doi: 10.1186/s12889-019-8050-0.

Effectiveness of various communication strategies for improving childhood 
pneumonia case management: a community based behavioral open labeled trial in 
rural Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, India.

Awasthi S(1), Kumar D(2), Mishra N(2), Agarwal M(3), Pandey CM(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, King George's Medical University, Lucknow, Uttar 
Pradesh, India. shally07@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, King George's Medical University, Lucknow, Uttar 
Pradesh, India.
(3)Department of Social and Preventive Medicine, King George's Medical 
University, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, India.
(4)Department of Biostatistics and Health Informatics, Sanjay Gandhi Post 
Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, India.

BACKGROUND: Community acquired pneumonia is responsible for 16% of under 5 
mortality in India, probably due to delayed recognition and qualified care 
seeking. Therefore these deaths could possibly be averted by creating community 
awareness and promoting care seeking from qualified physicians in the government 
system. The objective of study was to assess the effectiveness of facility-based 
and village-based behavior change communication interventions delivered to 
community using validated information, education and communication materials, 
along with infrastructural strengthening of health facilities, for change in 
care seeking from government system for community acquired pneumonia in rural 
Lucknow, India.
METHOD: Community based open labeled behavioral trial in 2 by 2 factorial design 
was conducted in eight rural blocks of Lucknow, northern India. Trained 
community health workers conducted Pneumonia Awareness Sessions once a month for 
the care givers of children using validated information, education and 
communication materials either at the villages or at government health 
facilities. Prior infrastructural strengthening of public health facilities was 
done to provide optimal care to cases. Pre packed pneumonia drug kits were 
provided which had amoxicillin, paracetamol and an instruction card on their use 
as well as pictorial representation of danger signs of pneumonia.
RESULTS: Study lasted from October 2015 to September 2018. Adherence to conduct 
of facility-based intervention was 93.0% (279/300) and to village-based 
intervention was 73.4% (7638/10410). In village-based intervention there was 
79.3% (p < 0.0001) increase from a baseline of 3.3% (14/420) and facility-based 
intervention 68.9% (p = 0.02) increase from a baseline of 5.35% (21/392) in 
cases of possible pneumonia treated at government health facilities.
CONCLUSION: Conduct of structured pneumonia awareness session using validated 
information, education and communication material at village level with 
infrastructural strengthening resulted in improved qualified care seeking from 
government facilities for community acquired pneumonia.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: AEARCTR-0003137, retrospectively registered on 10/July/2018.

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-019-8050-0
PMCID: PMC6929504
PMID: 31870334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


519. Clin Ther. 2004 Jul;26(7):1168-78. doi: 10.1016/s0149-2918(04)90189-0.

A cost threshold analysis of ciprofloxacin-dexamethasone versus ofloxacin for 
acute otitis media in pediatric patients with tympanostomy tubes.

Roland PS(1), Pontius A, Michael Wall G, Waycaster CR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical 
Center, Dallas, USA.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to determine the cost-effectiveness 
hreshold of a ciprofloxacin 0.3% and dexamethasone 0.1% (CD) otic suspension 
relative to olfloxacin otic solution (OFX) for the treatment of acute otitis 
media in pediatric patients with tympanostomy tubes (AOMT).
METHODS: This study used a decision-analytic model to simulate the costs and 
consequences of the ototopical treatment of AOMT. The AOMT model consisted of 3 
tiers of antimicrobial therapy. Each successive tier represented the repeat 
treatment of clinical failures from the preceding tier. Patients were modeled 
for treatment until cured or until third-tier therapy was complete, at which 
time patients were considered cured. First-tier therapy modeled a comparison of 
CD and OFX using efficacy rates taken from a randomized clinical trial with a 
population of 599 patients. Second-tier therapy modeled the use of amoxicillin 
and clavulanic acid using an efficacy rate taken from the medical literature. 
Third-tier therapy was modeled as being pathogen specific and could follow 1 of 
3 possible clinical pathways: (1) PO fluconazole, (2) IM ceftriaxone, or (3) IV 
antibiotics administered in a hospital setting. Third-tier therapeutic pathway 
probabilities were based on the microbiologic spectrum of the treatment failures 
from the clinical trial. Cost information (in year-2003 US dollars) was taken 
from accepted cost reference sources and presented from the perspective of a 
third-party payer. The economic outcome of interest was the cost-effectiveness 
threshold of CD relative to OFX.
RESULTS: Given the model parameters, CD had a cost-effectiveness threshold value 
of 4.5 times the wholesale acquisition cost of OFX. Based on actual cost, 
first-tier CD therapy was more cost-effective than OFX up to a threshold price 
of US 152.64 dollars.
CONCLUSION: In this decision-analytic model, CD was more cost-effective than OFX 
for AOMT therapy in pediatric patients up to a threshold price of 4.5 times the 
price of OFX.

DOI: 10.1016/s0149-2918(04)90189-0
PMID: 15336482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. J Microbiol Immunol Infect. 2014 Dec;47(6):478-83. doi: 
10.1016/j.jmii.2013.07.011. Epub 2013 Sep 21.

Drug susceptibility and treatment response of common urinary tract infection 
pathogens in children.

Chen PC(1), Chang LY(2), Lu CY(1), Shao PL(1), Tsai IJ(1), Tsau YK(1), Lee 
PI(1), Chen JM(3), Hsueh PR(3), Huang LM(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Infectious Diseases, Department of Pediatrics, National 
Taiwan University Hospital, College of Medicine, National Taiwan University, 
Taipei, Taiwan.
(2)Division of Pediatric Infectious Diseases, Department of Pediatrics, National 
Taiwan University Hospital, College of Medicine, National Taiwan University, 
Taipei, Taiwan. Electronic address: ly7077@tpts6.seed.net.tw.
(3)Department of Laboratory Medicine, National Taiwan University Hospital, 
College of Medicine, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND/PURPOSE: To document the trends of sensitivity and to find whether it 
is necessary to change antibiotics in selected patients according to the 
sensitivity test results in our clinical practice.
METHODS: We collected urine culture results from 0-18-year-old patients in the 
National Taiwan University Hospital from January 1, 2003 to October 31, 2012. 
Their medical chart was reviewed to identify true pathogens responsible for 
their urinary tract infection (UTI). We checked the percentage of susceptibility 
of these pathogens to ampicillin, amoxicillin-clavulanate (AMC), cefazolin, 
cefmetazole, ceftriaxone, gentamicin, and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole 
(TMP-SMX) according to the Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI) 
guideline. The extended-spectrum-beta-lactamases (ESBLs) rate was also checked. 
In addition, we reviewed the treatment response of different antibiotics. 
Defervescence within 48 hours after initial antibiotics use was considered 
responsive.
RESULTS: A total of 7758 urine cultures positive for Escherichia coli infection 
were collected during the 10-year period. The E. coli cefazolin susceptibility 
rate was 62-73% during 2003-2010, but it dropped to 23% in 2011 and 28% in 2012 
after the new CLSI guideline (M100-S21) was released. However, other antibiotics 
did not show a significant difference. In UTI caused by E. coli, on average, the 
sensitivity rates for various antibiotics were as follows: cefmetazole, 90%; 
ceftriaxone, 85%; gentamicin, 77%; AMC, 61%; TMP-SMX, 47%; and ampicillin, 20%. 
The ESBL rate was also found to increase (2-11%; p < 0.01). The overall response 
rate of UTI caused by E. coli to first-line antibiotics such as first-generation 
cephalosporin and/or gentamicin was 78%.
CONCLUSION: The susceptibility of common urinary tract pathogens to cefazolin 
has decreased dramatically since 2010. This trend may be due to the change in 
the CLSI guideline. Although the susceptibility rate to first-line empirical 
antibiotics shows a decreasing trend, we found that the clinical response was 
acceptable for our first-line empirical antibiotics.

Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmii.2013.07.011
PMID: 24064294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Can J Gastroenterol. 2005 Jul;19(7):399-408.

Canadian Helicobacter Study Group Consensus Conference: Update on the approach 
to Helicobacter pylori infection in children and adolescents--an evidence-based 
evaluation.

Bourke B(1), Ceponis P, Chiba N, Czinn S, Ferraro R, Fischbach L, Gold B, Hyunh 
H, Jacobson K, Jones NL, Koletzko S, Lebel S, Moayyedi P, Ridell R, Sherman P, 
van Zanten S, Beck I, Best L, Boland M, Bursey F, Chaun H, Cooper G, Craig B, 
Creuzenet C, Critch J, Govender K, Hassall E, Kaplan A, Keelan M, Noad G, 
Robertson M, Smith L, Stein M, Taylor D, Walters T, Persaud R, Whitaker S, 
Woodland R; Canadian Helicobacter Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Division of GI/Nutrition, The Hospital for Sick Children, Department of 
Paediatrics, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Nicola.jones@sickkids.ca

Erratum in
    Can J Gastroenterol. 2005 Aug;19(8):478.

As an update to previously published recommendations for the management of 
Helicobacter pylori infection, an evidence-based appraisal of 14 topics was 
undertaken in a consensus conference sponsored by the Canadian Helicobacter 
Study Group. The goal was to update guidelines based on the best available 
evidence using an established and uniform methodology to address and formulate 
recommendations for each topic. The degree of consensus for each recommendation 
is also presented. The clinical issues addressed and recommendations made were: 
population-based screening for H. pylori in asymptomatic children to prevent 
gastric cancer is not warranted; testing for H. pylori in children should be 
considered if there is a family history of gastric cancer; the goal of 
diagnostic interventions should be to determine the cause of presenting 
gastrointestinal symptoms and not the presence of H. pylori infection; recurrent 
abdominal pain of childhood is not an indication to test for H. pylori 
infection; H. pylori testing is not required in patients with newly diagnosed 
gastroesophageal reflux disease; H. pylori testing may be considered before the 
use of long-term proton pump inhibitor therapy; testing for H. pylori infection 
should be considered in children with refractory iron deficiency anemia when no 
other cause has been found; when investigation of pediatric patients with 
persistent or severe upper abdominal symptoms is indicated, upper endoscopy with 
biopsy is the investigation of choice; the 13C-urea breath test is currently the 
best noninvasive diagnostic test for H. pylori infection in children; there is 
currently insufficient evidence to recommend stool antigen tests as acceptable 
diagnostic tools for H. pylori infection; serological antibody tests are not 
recommended as diagnostic tools for H. pylori infection in children; first-line 
therapy for H. pylori infection in children is a twice-daily, triple-drug 
regimen comprised of a proton pump inhibitor plus two antibiotics 
(clarithromycin plus amoxicillin or metronidazole); the optimal treatment period 
for H. pylori infection in children is 14 days; and H. pylori culture and 
antibiotic sensitivity testing should be made available to monitor population 
antibiotic resistance and manage treatment failures.

PMID: 16010300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Bol Med Hosp Infant Mex. 2018;75(6):352-357. doi: 10.24875/BMHIM.18000015.

Early discharge of pediatric patients with cancer, fever, and neutropenia with 
low-risk of systemic infection.

[Article in English]

Gil-Veloz M(1), Pacheco-Rosas DO(2), Solórzano-Santos F(3), Villasís-Keever 
MA(4), Betanzos-Cabrera Y(5), Miranda-Novales G(4).

Author information:
(1)Hospital Regional de Alta Especialidad del Bajío, León, Guanajuato.
(2)Departamento de Infectología, Unidad Médica de Alta Especialidad, Hospital de 
Pediatría, Centro Médico Nacional Siglo XXI, Instituto Mexicano del Seguro 
Social, Mexico City.
(3)Unidad de Investigación en Medicina Basada en Evidencias, Hospital Infantil 
de México Federico Gómez, Secretaría de Salud, Mexico City.
(4)Unidad de Investigación en Análisis y Síntesis de la Evidencia, Centro Médico 
Nacional Siglo XXI, IMSS, Coordinación de Investigación, Instituto Mexicano del 
Seguro Social, Mexico City.
(5)Departamento de Oncología, Unidad Médica de Alta Especialidad, Hospital de 
Pediatría, Centro Médico Nacional Siglo XXI, Instituto Mexicano del Seguro 
Social, Mexico City. Mexico.

BACKGROUND: Ambulatory therapy in low-risk patients with cancer, fever, and 
neutropenia seems to be a secure and effective alternative. This study aimed to 
compare the effectiveness and safety of the antimicrobial treatment in early 
discharge vs. in-hospital treatment in children with cancer and febrile 
neutropenia (FN) with low risk of invasive bacterial infection (IBI).
METHODS: Quasi-experimental design with a historical cohort control group. 
Children with cancer during an episode of FN and low risk of IBI were included. 
The control group were inpatient children that received intravenous 
piperacillin/tazobactam. The experimental group was early discharge patients, 
who received 48 h of IV treatment and were switched to oral treatment. Outcomes: 
fever resolution, readmissions, and mortality.
RESULTS: Eighty low-risk FN episodes were included; the median age was 6 years 
old (2.6-11 years), and 43 (54%) were female. Main diagnoses were solid tumors 
(52 patients) and leukemia or lymphoma (28 patients). Forty-three patients 
received in-hospital treatment, and 37 were selected for early discharge (31 
patients received ciprofloxacin and six received amoxicillin/clavulanate). Two 
patients were readmitted, one due to a relapse of fever with tumor progression 
and the other due to epistaxis. Adverse effects occurred in 21.6% of the early 
discharge group and 12% of the inpatient treatment group (p = 0.04).
CONCLUSIONS: Early discharge in pediatric patients with cancer, fever, and 
neutropenia is an acceptable and safe alternative for low-risk patients.

Publisher: INTRODUCCIÓN: El tratamiento ambulatorio en pacientes con cáncer, 
fiebre y neutropenia de bajo riesgo parece ser una alternativa segura y 
efectiva. El objetivo de este trabajo fue comparar la efectividad y la seguridad 
del tratamiento antimicrobiano en la modalidad de egreso temprano vs. el 
tratamiento intrahospitalario en niños con cáncer y neutropenia febril (NF), con 
bajo riesgo de infección bacteriana invasiva (IBI).
MÉTODOS: Diseño cuasi-experimental con un grupo control histórico. Se incluyeron 
niños con cáncer durante un episodio de NF con bajo riesgo de IBI. El grupo 
control fue constituido por pacientes que recibieron tratamiento hospitalario 
con piperacilina-tazobactam intravenosa. Los pacientes en el grupo de egreso 
temprano recibieron 48 horas de tratamiento intravenoso y egresaron con 
antimicrobianos por vía oral. Desenlaces: resolución de la fiebre, reingreso al 
hospital y muerte.
RESULTADOS: Se incluyeron 80 pacientes con NF de bajo riesgo; la mediana de edad 
fue de 6 años; 43 pacientes (54%) eran de sexo femenino. Los diagnósticos 
principales fueron tumores sólidos (52) y leucemia o linfoma (28). Cuarenta y 
tres pacientes recibieron tratamiento hospitalario y 37 fueron seleccionados 
para egreso temprano. En el grupo de egreso temprano, 31 pacientes recibieron 
ciprofloxacino y 6 recibieron amoxicilina-clavulanato. Dos pacientes 
reingresaron, uno por fiebre secundaria a progresión tumoral y otro por 
epistaxis. Los efectos adversos se presentaron en el 21.6% de los pacientes en 
el grupo de egreso temprano y en el 12% del grupo de tratamiento hospitalario (p 
= 0.04).
CONCLUSIONES: El egreso temprano para niños con cáncer y NF de bajo riesgo es 
una alternativa aceptable y segura.

Copyright: © 2018 Permanyer.

DOI: 10.24875/BMHIM.18000015
PMID: 30407457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Am J Physiol Regul Integr Comp Physiol. 2021 Sep 1;321(3):R303-R316. doi: 
10.1152/ajpregu.00090.2021. Epub 2021 Jul 14.

Transient antibiotic-induced changes in the neonatal swine intestinal microbiota 
impact islet expression profiles reducing subsequent function.

Sosa Alvarado C(1), Yang K(1), Qiu H(2), Mills E(1), Fouhse JM(1), Ju T(1), 
Buteau J(1), Field CJ(1), Willing BP(1), Chan CB(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Agricultural, Food and Nutritional Science, University of 
Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.
(2)Department of Physiology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.

Neonatal antibiotics administered to human infants initiate gut microbiota 
dysbiosis that may have long-term effects on body weight and metabolism. We 
examined antibiotic-induced adaptations in pancreatic islets of the piglet, a 
well-accepted model of human infant microbiota and pancreas development. 
Neonatal piglets randomized to amoxicillin [30 mg/kg body wt/day; n = 7, 
antibiotic (ANTI)] or placebo [vehicle control; n = 7, control (CON)] from 
postnatal day (PND)0-13 were euthanized at PND7, 14, and 49. The metabolic 
phenotype along with functional, immunohistological, and transcriptional 
phenotypes of the pancreatic islets were studied. The gut microbiome was 
characterized by 16S rRNA gene sequencing, and microbial metabolites and 
microbiome-sensitive host molecules were measured. Compared with CON, ANTI PND7 
piglets had elevated transcripts of genes involved in glucagon-like peptide 1 
((GLP-1) synthesis or signaling in islets (P < 0.05) coinciding with higher 
plasma GLP-1 (P = 0.11), along with increased tumor necrosis factor α (Tnf) (P < 
0.05) and protegrin 1 (Npg1) (P < 0.05). Antibiotic-induced relative increases 
in Escherichia, Coprococcus, Ruminococcus, Dehalobacterium, and Oscillospira of 
the ileal microbiome at PND7 normalized after antibiotic withdrawal. In ANTI 
islets at PND14, the expression of key regulators pancreatic and duodenal 
homeobox 1 (Pdx1), insulin-like growth factor-2 (Igf2), and transcription factor 
7-like 2 (Tcf7l2) was downregulated, preceding a 40% reduction of β-cell area (P 
< 0.01) and islet insulin content at PND49 (P < 0.05). At PND49, a twofold 
elevated plasma insulin concentration (P = 0.07) was observed in ANTI compared 
with CON. We conclude that antibiotic treatment of neonatal piglets elicited gut 
microbial changes accompanied by phasic alterations in key regulatory genes in 
pancreatic islets at PND7 and 14. By PND49, reduced β-cell area and islet 
insulin content were accompanied by elevated nonfasted insulin despite 
normoglycemia, indicative of islet stress.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpregu.00090.2021
PMID: 34259034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Yonsei Med J. 2021 Aug;62(8):708-716. doi: 10.3349/ymj.2021.62.8.708.

Efficacy of Seven-Day Potassium-Competitive Acid Blocker-Based First-Line 
Helicobacter Pylori Eradication Therapy Administered with Bismuth.

Kim JY(1), Lee SY(2), Kim H(3), Kim JH(1), Sung IK(1), Park HS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Konkuk University School of Medicine, Seoul, 
Korea.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Konkuk University School of Medicine, Seoul, 
Korea. sunyoung@kuh.ac.kr.
(3)Department of Pathology, Konkuk University School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: To determine the efficacy of a potassium-competitive acid blocker 
(P-CAB)-based first-line eradication therapy with bismuth compared with that of 
proton pump inhibitor-based first-line therapy with bismuth.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Eradication-naive H. pylori-infected patients were 
consecutively enrolled from January to November 2020. Before approval of the 
P-CAB-based eradication therapy, twice daily administration of a regimen 
containing lansoprazole 30 mg, amoxicillin 1 g, clarithromycin 500 mg, and 
bismuth potassium citrate 300 mg was prescribed for 7 days. After approval, 
lansoprazole was replaced with tegoprazan (50 mg). Clarithromycin resistance was 
examined in patients who underwent gastroscopic biopsy at our center. Efficacy 
was assessed via the 13C-urea breath test.
RESULTS: Of the 381 eradication-naive patients, eradication was successful in 
88.3% (151/171) treated with tegoprazan and 82.8% (140/169) treated with 
lansoprazole in per-protocol analysis (p=0.151). In intention-to-treat analysis, 
eradication rates were 78.8% (152/193) in the tegoprazan and 74.5% (140/188) in 
the lansoprazole group (p=0.323). Clarithromycin resistance was observed in 30 
(20.1%) of the 148 patients (74 from each group), and only four of the 16 
clarithromycin-resistant patients in the tegoprazan group achieved successful 
eradication. Clarithromycin resistance [odds ratio (OR)=42.1, 95% confidence 
intervals (CIs)=12.6-141.0] and poor patient compliance (OR=17.1, 95% 
CIs=1.6-189.1) were independent risk factors for eradication failure.
CONCLUSION: In eradication-naive patients, eradication success rates for 7-day 
first-line triple therapy regimen exceeded 82% with bismuth administration. In 
clarithromycin-resistant patients, neither tegoprazan 50 mg nor lansoprazole 30 
mg achieved acceptable eradication rates when administered twice daily for 7 
days.

© Copyright: Yonsei University College of Medicine 2021.

DOI: 10.3349/ymj.2021.62.8.708
PMCID: PMC8298865
PMID: 34296548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no potential conflicts of 
interest to disclose.


525. Lancet Glob Health. 2015 May;3(5):e279-87. doi: 10.1016/S2214-109X(14)70347-X. 
Epub 2015 Apr 1.

Safety and efficacy of alternative antibiotic regimens compared with 7 day 
injectable procaine benzylpenicillin and gentamicin for outpatient treatment of 
neonates and young infants with clinical signs of severe infection when referral 
is not possible: a randomised, open-label, equivalence trial.

Baqui AH(1), Saha SK(2), Ahmed AS(2), Shahidullah M(3), Quasem I(2), Roth DE(4), 
Samsuzzaman AK(5), Ahmed W(6), Tabib SM(7), Mitra DK(8), Begum N(8), Islam M(2), 
Mahmud A(8), Rahman MH(8), Moin MI(8), Mullany LC(8), Cousens S(9), El Arifeen 
S(10), Wall S(11), Brandes N(12), Santosham M(8), Black RE(8); Projahnmo Study 
Group in Bangladesh.

Author information:
(1)International Center for Maternal and Newborn Health, Department of 
International Health, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, 
Baltimore, MD, USA. Electronic address: abaqui@jhu.edu.
(2)Child Health Research Foundation, Dhaka Shishu Hospital, Dhaka, Bangladesh.
(3)Bangabandhu Shaikh Mujib Medical University, Dhaka, Bangladesh.
(4)Department of Paediatrics, Hospital for Sick Children and University of 
Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(5)Shishu Sasthya Foundation, Dhaka, Bangladesh.
(6)Chittagong Ma O' Shishu Hospital, Chittagong, Bangladesh.
(7)Institute of Child and Mother Health, Matuail, Dhaka, Bangladesh.
(8)International Center for Maternal and Newborn Health, Department of 
International Health, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, 
Baltimore, MD, USA.
(9)Faculty of Epidemiology and Population Health, London School of Hygiene & 
Tropical Medicine, London, UK.
(10)icddr,b, Dhaka, Bangladesh.
(11)Saving Newborn Lives, Save the Children Federation, Washington, DC, USA.
(12)United States Agency for International Development, Washington, DC, USA.

Comment in
    Lancet Glob Health. 2015 May;3(5):e245-6. doi: 
10.1016/S2214-109X(15)70109-9.

BACKGROUND: Severe infections remain one of the main causes of neonatal deaths 
worldwide. Possible severe infection is diagnosed in young infants (aged 0-59 
days) according to the presence of one or more clinical signs. The recommended 
treatment is hospital admission with 7-10 days of injectable antibiotic therapy. 
In low-income and middle-income countries, barriers to hospital care lead to 
delayed, inadequate, or no treatment for many young infants. We aimed to 
identify effective alternative antibiotic regimens to expand treatment options 
for situations where hospital admission is not possible.
METHODS: We did this randomised, open-label, equivalence trial in four urban 
hospitals and one rural field site in Bangladesh to determine whether two 
alternative antibiotic regimens with reduced numbers of injectable antibiotics 
combined with oral antibiotics had similar efficacy and safety to the standard 
regimen, which was also used as outpatient treatment. We randomly assigned 
infants who showed at least one clinical sign of severe, but not critical, 
infection (except fast breathing alone), whose parents refused hospital 
admission, to one of the three treatment regimens. We stratified randomisation 
by study site and age (<7 days or 7-59 days) using computer-generated 
randomisation sequences. The standard treatment was intramuscular procaine 
benzylpenicillin and gentamicin once per day for 7 days (group A). The 
alternative regimens were intramuscular gentamicin once per day and oral 
amoxicillin twice per day for 7 days (group B) or intramuscular procaine 
benzylpenicillin and gentamicin once per day for 2 days, then oral amoxicillin 
twice per day for 5 days (group C). The primary outcome was treatment failure 
within 7 days after enrolment. Assessors of treatment failure were masked to 
treatment allocation. Primary analysis was per protocol. We used a prespecified 
similarity margin of 5% to assess equivalence between regimens. This study is 
registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT00844337.
FINDINGS: Between July 1, 2009, and June 30, 2013, we recruited 2490 young 
infants into the trial. We assigned 830 infants to group A, 831 infants to group 
B, and 829 infants to group C. 2367 (95%) infants fulfilled per-protocol 
criteria. 78 (10%) of 795 per-protocol infants had treatment failure in group A 
compared with 65 (8%) of 782 infants in group B (risk difference -1.5%, 95% CI 
-4.3 to 1.3) and 64 (8%) of 790 infants in group C (-1.7%, -4.5 to 1.1). In 
group A, 14 (2%) infants died before day 15, compared with 12 (2%) infants in 
group B and 12 (2%) infants in group C. Non-fatal relapse rates were similar in 
all three groups (12 [2%] infants in group A vs 13 [2%] infants in group B and 
10 [1%] infants in group C).
INTERPRETATION: Our results suggest that the two alternative antibiotic regimens 
for outpatient treatment of clinical signs of severe infection in young infants 
whose parents refused hospital admission are as efficacious as the standard 
regimen. This finding could increase treatment options in resource-poor settings 
when referral care is not available or acceptable.

Copyright © 2015 Baqui et al. Open Access article distributed under the terms of 
CC BY. Published by .. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2214-109X(14)70347-X
PMID: 25841891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Med J Islam Repub Iran. 2015 Apr 6;29:195. eCollection 2015.

Comparison of quadruple and triple Furazolidone containing regimens on 
eradication of helicobacter pylori.

Mokhtare M(1), Hosseini V(2), Tirgar Fakheri H(3), Maleki I(4), Taghvaei T(5), 
Valizadeh SM(6), Sardarian H(7), Agah S(8), Khalilian A(9).

Author information:
(1)Assistant Professor, Colorectal Research Center, Iran university of Medical 
Sciences, Rasool-e-Akram Hospital, Tehran, Iran. mokhtare.m@iums.ac.ir.
(2)Assistant Professor, Gut and Liver Research Center, Mazandaran University of 
Medical Sciences, Imam Khomeini Hospital, Sari, Iran. dr.vahid47@gmail.com , 
dr.vahid47@gmail.com.
(3)Professor, Gut and Liver Research Center, Mazandaran University of Medical 
Sciences, Imam Khomeini Hospital, Sari, Iran. fakher42@yahoo.com.
(4)Associate Professor, Gut and Liver Research Center, Mazandaran University of 
Medical Sciences, Imam Khomeini Hospital, Sari, Iran. iradj2001@yahoo.com.
(5)Assistant professor, Gut and Liver Research Center, Mazandaran University of 
Medical Sciences, Imam Khomeini Hospital, Sari, Iran. tarang_taghvaei@yahoo.com.
(6)Assistant Professor, Gut and Liver Research Center, Mazandaran University of 
Medical Sciences, Imam Khomeini Hospital, Sari, Iran. seyedmohammadv@yahoo.com.
(7)Assistant Professor, Guilan University of Medical Sciences, International 
Branch, Bandar Anzali,Guilan, Iran. hsardarian@yahoo.com.
(8)Associate Professor, Colorectal Research Center, Iran university of Medical 
Sciences, Rasool-e-Akram Hospital, Tehran, Iran. crrc.iums@gmail.com.
(9)Professor PhD, Department of Biostatistics and Community Medicine, Imam 
Khomeini Hospital, Sari, Iran. khalilianir@yahoo.com.

BACKGROUND: The effectiveness of classic standard triple therapy regimen of 
helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) eradication has decreased to unacceptably low 
levels, largely related to development of resistance to metronidazole and 
clarithromycin. Thus successful eradication of H. pylori infections remains 
challenging. Therefore alternative treatments with superior effectiveness and 
safety should be designed and appropriately tested in all areas depending on the 
native resistance patterns. Furazolidone has been used successfully in 
eradication regimens previously and regimens containing furazolidone may be an 
ideal regimen.
METHODS: H. pylori infected patients with proven gastric or duodenal ulcers and 
/or gastric or duodenal erosions at Imam Khomeini Hospital in Sari/Northern 
Iran, were randomly allocated into three groups: group A (OABF) with 
furazolidone (F) (200 mg bid.), group B (OABM-F) metronidazole (M) (500 mg bid.) 
for the first five days, followed by furazolidone (F) (200 mg bid.) for the 
second five days and group C (OAF) with furazolidone (F) (200 mg tid.). 
Omeprazole (O) (20 mg bid.) and amoxicillin (A) (1000 mg bid.) were given in all 
groups; bismuth (B) (240 mg bid.) was prescribed in groups A & B. Duration of 
all eradication regimens were ten days. Eight weeks after treatment, a 14C-urea 
breath test was performed for evaluation of H. pylori eradication.
RESULTS: A total of 372 patients were enrolled in three groups randomly (124 
patients in each group); 120 (97%) patients in group A (OABF), 120 (97%) in 
group B (OABM-F) and 116 (93%) in group C (OAF) completed the study. The 
intention-to-treat eradication rates were 83.7% (95% CI= 77.3-90.4), 79.8% (95% 
CI= 72.6-87), and 84.6% (95% CI= 78.2-91.1) and per-protocol eradication rates 
were 86.6% (95% CI= 80.5-92.8), 82.5% (95% CI= 75.6-89.4), and 90.5% (95% CI= 
85.1-95.9) for groups OABF, OABM-F, and OAF, respectively. No statistical 
significant differences were found in case of severe drug adverse effects 
between the above mentioned three groups (p> 0.05). The most common side 
effects, namely nausea and fever, occurred in all groups, but more frequently in 
group C (OAF) (p< 0.05).
CONCLUSION: In developing countries such as Iran, furazolidone-based regimens 
can substitute clarithromycinbased regimens for H. pylori eradication because of 
a very low level of resistance, low cost and high effectiveness. Considering 
per-protocol eradication rate of ten days OAF regimen, and the acceptable limit 
of ninety percent, we recommend this regimen in developing countries such as 
Iran to be substituted of classic standard triple therapy. In order to minimize 
rare serious adverse effects, one week high dose OAF regimen should be taken 
into consideration in other studies.

PMCID: PMC4476222
PMID: 26157713


527. BMC Infect Dis. 2020 Apr 15;20(1):278. doi: 10.1186/s12879-020-05006-6.

Risk of multi-drug resistant Campylobacter spp. and residual antimicrobials at 
poultry farms and live bird markets in Bangladesh.

Neogi SB(1), Islam MM(2), Islam SKS(3), Akhter AHMT(4), Sikder MMH(5), Yamasaki 
S(1), Kabir SML(6).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Life and Environmental Sciences, Osaka Prefecture 
University, Osaka, Japan.
(2)Department of Microbiology and Hygiene, Bangladesh Agricultural University, 
Mymensingh, 2202, Bangladesh.
(3)Epidemiology Unit, Department of Livestock Services, Krishi Khamar Sarak, 
Farmgate, Dhaka, 1215, Bangladesh.
(4)FAO-Food Safety Program (FSP), Institute of Public Health, Mohakhali, Dhaka, 
1215, Bangladesh.
(5)Department of Pharmacology, Bangladesh Agricultural University, Mymensingh, 
2202, Bangladesh.
(6)Department of Microbiology and Hygiene, Bangladesh Agricultural University, 
Mymensingh, 2202, Bangladesh. lkabir79@bau.edu.bd.

BACKGROUND: Understanding potential risks of multi-drug resistant (MDR) 
pathogens from the booming poultry sector is a crucial public health concern. 
Campylobacter spp. are among the most important zoonotic pathogens associated 
with MDR infections in poultry and human. This study systematically examined 
potential risks and associated socio-environmental factors of MDR Campylobacter 
spp. in poultry farms and live bird markets (LBMs) of Bangladesh.
METHODS: Microbial culture and PCR-based methods were applied to examine the 
occurrence and MDR patterns of Campylobacter spp. in potential sources (n = 224) 
at 7 hatcheries, 9 broiler farms and 4 LBMs in three sub-districts. 
Antimicrobial residues in broiler meat and liver samples (n = 50) were detected 
by advanced chromatographic techniques. A questionnaire based cross-sectional 
survey was conducted on socio-environmental factors.
RESULTS: Overall, 32% (71/ 224) samples were found contaminated with 
Campylobacter spp. In poultry farms, Campylobacter spp. was primarily found in 
cloacal swab (21/49, 43%), followed by drinking water (8/24, 33%), and meat 
(8/28, 29%) samples of broilers. Remarkably, at LBMs, Campylobacter spp. was 
detected in higher prevalence (p < 0.05) in broiler meat (14/26, 54%), which 
could be related (p < 0.01) to bacterial contamination of drinking water (11/21, 
52%) and floor (9/21, 43%). Campylobacter isolates, one from each of 71 positive 
samples, were differentiated into Campylobacter jejuni (66%) and Campylobacter 
coli (34%). Alarmingly, 49 and 42% strains of C. jejuni and C. coli, 
respectively, were observed as MDR, i.e., resistant to three or more 
antimicrobials, including, tetracycline, amoxicillin, streptomycin, 
fluoroquinolones, and macrolides. Residual antimicrobials (oxytetracycline, 
ciprofloxacin and enrofloxacin) were detected in majority of broiler liver (79%) 
and meat (62%) samples, among which 33 and 19%, respectively, had concentration 
above acceptable limit. Inadequate personal and environmental hygiene, 
unscrupulously use of antimicrobials, improper waste disposal, and lack of 
health surveillance were distinguishable risk factors, with local diversity and 
compound influences on MDR pathogens.
CONCLUSION: Potential contamination sources and anthropogenic factors associated 
with the alarming occurrence of MDR Campylobacter, noted in this study, would 
aid in developing interventions to minimize the increasing risks of 
poultry-associated MDR pathogens under 'One Health' banner that includes 
poultry, human and environment perspectives.

DOI: 10.1186/s12879-020-05006-6
PMCID: PMC7158023
PMID: 32293315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


528. Malar J. 2016 Jul 2;15(1):340. doi: 10.1186/s12936-016-1380-9.

Integrated community case management and community-based health planning and 
services: a cross sectional study on the effectiveness of the national 
implementation for the treatment of malaria, diarrhoea and pneumonia.

Ferrer BE(1)(2), Webster J(3), Bruce J(3), Narh-Bana SA(4), Narh CT(5), Allotey 
NK(6), Glover R(6), Bart-Plange C(6), Sagoe-Moses I(7), Malm K(6), Gyapong M(4).

Author information:
(1)Disease Control Department, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, 
London, UK. blanca.escribano@lshtm.ac.uk.
(2)Dodowa Health Research Center, Ghana Health Service, Dodowa, Ghana. 
blanca.escribano@lshtm.ac.uk.
(3)Disease Control Department, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, 
London, UK.
(4)Dodowa Health Research Center, Ghana Health Service, Dodowa, Ghana.
(5)School of Public Health, University of Health and Allied Sciences, Hohoe, 
Volta Region, Ghana.
(6)National Malaria Control Programme, Ghana Health Service, Accra, Ghana.
(7)Reproductive and Child Health Department, Ghana Health Service, Accra, Ghana.

BACKGROUND: Ghana has developed two main community-based strategies that aim to 
increase access to quality treatment for malaria, diarrhoea and pneumonia: the 
Home-based Care (HBC) and the Community-based Health Planning and Services 
(CHPS). The objective was to assess the effectiveness of HBC and CHPS on 
utilization, appropriate treatment given and users' satisfaction for the 
treatment of malaria, diarrhoea and pneumonia.
METHODS: A household survey was conducted 2 and 8 years after implementation of 
HBC in the Volta and Northern Regions of Ghana, respectively. The study 
population was carers of children under-five who had fever, diarrhoea and/or 
cough in the last 2 weeks prior to the interview. HBC and CHPS utilization were 
assessed based on treatment-seeking behaviour when the child was sick. 
Appropriate treatment was based on adherence to national guidelines and 
satisfaction was based on the perceptions of the carers after the 
treatment-seeking visit.
RESULTS: HBC utilization was 17.3 and 1.0 % in the Volta and Northern Regions 
respectively, while CHPS utilization in the same regions was 11.8 and 31.3 %, 
with large variation among districts. Regarding appropriate treatment of 
uncomplicated malaria, 36.7 % (n = 17) and 19.4 % (n = 1) of malaria cases were 
treated with ACT under the HBC in the Volta and Northern Regions respectively, 
and 14.7 % (n = 7) and 7.4 % (n = 26) under the CHPS in the Volta and Northern 
Regions. Regarding diarrhoea, 7.6 % (n = 4) of the children diagnosed with 
diarrhoea received oral rehydration salts (ORS) or were referred under the HBC 
in the Volta Region and 22.1 % (n = 6) and 5.6 % (n = 8) under the CHPS in the 
Volta and Northern Regions. Regarding suspected pneumonia, CHPS in the Northern 
Region gave the most appropriate treatment with 33.0 % (n = 4) of suspected 
cases receiving amoxicillin. Users of CHPS in the Volta Region were the most 
satisfied (97.7 % were satisfied or very satisfied) when compared with those of 
the HBC and of the Northern Region.
CONCLUSIONS: HBC showed greater utilization by children under-five years of age 
in the Volta Region while CHPS was more utilized in the Northern Region. 
Utilization of HBC contributed to prompt treatment of fever in the Volta Region. 
Appropriate treatment for the three diseases was low in the HBC and CHPS, in 
both regions. Users were generally satisfied with the CHPS and HBC services.

DOI: 10.1186/s12936-016-1380-9
PMCID: PMC4930600
PMID: 27371259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. PLoS One. 2020 Oct 14;15(10):e0240688. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0240688. 
eCollection 2020.

Evaluating implementation of "management of Possible Serious Bacterial Infection 
(PSBI) when referral is not feasible" in primary health care facilities in Sindh 
province, Pakistan.

Bhura M(1), Ariff S(2), Qazi SA(3), Qazi Z(4), Ahmed I(1), Nisar YB(5), Suhag 
Z(6), Soomro AW(6), Soofi SB(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Center of Excellance in Women & Child Health, Aga Khan University, Karachi, 
Pakistan.
(2)Department of Paediatrics and Child Health, Aga Khan University, Karachi, 
Pakistan.
(3)Retired from Department of Maternal, Newborn, Child, and Adolescent Health, 
WHO, Working as a WHO Consultant, Geneva, Switzerland.
(4)Independent Consultant, Geneva, Switzerland.
(5)Department of Maternal, Newborn, Child, Adolescent Health and Aging, World 
Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland.
(6)People's Primary Healthcare Initiative, Sindh, Pakistan.

BACKGROUND: The World Health Organization (WHO) launched a guideline in 2015 for 
managing Possible Serious Bacterial Infection (PSBI) when referral is not 
feasible in young infants aged 0-59 days. This guideline was implemented across 
303 Basic Health Unit (BHU) Plus primary health care (PHC) facilities in 
peri-urban and rural settings of Sindh, Pakistan. We evaluated the 
implementation of PSBI guideline, and the quality of care provided to sick young 
infants at these facilities.
METHODS: Thirty (10%) out of 303 BHU Plus facilities were randomly selected for 
evaluation. A survey team visited each facility for one day, assessed the health 
system support, observed the management of sick young infants by health care 
providers (HCP), validated their management, interviewed HCPs and caretakers of 
sick infants. HCPs who were unable to see a young infant on the day of survey 
were evaluated using pre-prepared case scenarios.
RESULTS: Thirty (100%) BHU Plus facilities had oral amoxicillin, injectable 
gentamicin, thermometers, baby weighing scales and respiratory timers available; 
29 (97%) had disposable syringes and needles; 28 (93%) had integrated management 
of childhood illness (IMCI)/PSBI chart booklets and job aids and 18 (60%) had a 
functional ambulance. Each facility had at least one HCP trained in PSBI, and 21 
(70%) facilities had been visited by a supervisor in the preceding six months. 
Of 42 HCPs, 19 (45.3%) were trained within the preceding 12 months. During the 
survey, 26 sick young infants were identified in 18 facilities. HCPs asked about 
history of breastfeeding in 23 (89%) infants, history of vomiting in 17 (65%), 
and history of convulsions in 14 (54%); weighed 25 (97%) infants; measured 
respiratory rate in all (100%) and temperature in 24 (92%); assessed 20 (77%) 
for movement and 14 (54%) for chest indrawing. HCPs identified two infants with 
fast breathing pneumonia and managed them correctly per IMCI/PSBI protocol. HCPs 
identified six (23%) infants with clinical severe infection (CSI), two of them 
were referred to a higher-level facility, only one accepted the referral advice. 
Only one CSI patient was managed correctly per IMCI/PSBI protocol at the 
outpatient level. HCPs described the PSBI danger signs to eight (31%) 
caretakers. Caretakers of five infants with CSI and two with pneumonia were not 
counselled for PSBI danger signs. Five of the six CSI cases categorized by HCPs 
were validated as CSI on re-examination, whereas one had pneumonia. Similarly, 
one of the two pneumonia patients categorized by HCPs had CSI and one identified 
as local bacterial infection was classified as CSI upon re-examination.
CONCLUSION: Health system support was adequate but clinical management and 
counselling by HCPs was sub-optimal particularly with CSI cases who are at 
higher risk of adverse outcomes. Scaling up PSBI management is potentially 
feasible in PHC facilities in Pakistan, provided that HCPs are trained well and 
mentored, receive refresher training to appropriately manage sick young infants, 
and have adequate supplies and counselling skills.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0240688
PMCID: PMC7556471
PMID: 33052981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The study hired independent consultant ZQ for 
development of methods by Aga Khan University, Pakistan has no other commercial 
affiliation or role in the study. This does not alter our adherence to PLOS ONE 
policies on sharing data and materials.


530. Gynecol Obstet Fertil Senol. 2018 Dec;46(12):998-1003. doi: 
10.1016/j.gofs.2018.10.016. Epub 2018 Nov 2.

[Preterm premature rupture of membranes: CNGOF Guidelines for clinical 
practice - Short version].

[Article in French]

Schmitz T(1), Sentilhes L(2), Lorthe E(3), Gallot D(4), Madar H(2), Doret-Dion 
M(5), Beucher G(6), Charlier C(7), Cazanave C(8), Delorme P(9), Garabedian 
C(10), Azria É(11), Tessier V(12), Senat MV(13), Kayem G(14).

Author information:
(1)Service de gynécologie obstétrique, hôpital Robert-Debré, AP-HP, 48, 
boulevard Sérurier, 75019 Paris, France; Université Paris Diderot, 5, rue 
Thomas-Mann, 75013 Paris, France; Inserm UMR 1153, équipe de recherche en 
épidémiologie obstétricale, périnatale et pédiatrique (EPOPé), centre de 
recherche épidémiologie et statistique Sorbonne Paris Cité, 75005 Paris, France. 
Electronic address: thomas.schmitz@aphp.fr.
(2)Service de gynécologie-obstétrique, hôpital Pellegrin, centre hospitalier 
universitaire de Bordeaux, place Amélie-Raba-Léon, 33000 Bordeaux, France.
(3)Inserm UMR 1153, équipe de recherche en épidémiologie obstétricale, 
périnatale et pédiatrique (EPOPé), centre de recherche épidémiologie et 
statistique Sorbonne Paris Cité, 75005 Paris, France; EPIUnit-Institute of 
Public Health, University of Porto, Rua das Taipas, n(o) 135, 4050-600 Porto, 
Portugal.
(4)Pôle femme et enfant, CHU Estaing, 1, place Lucie-et-Raymond-Aubrac, 63003 
Clermont-Ferrand cedex 1, France; R2D2-EA7281, faculté de médecine, université 
d'Auvergne, place Henri-Dunant, 63000 Clermont-Ferrand, France.
(5)Service de gynécologie obstétrique, hôpital Femme-Mère-Enfant, hospices 
civils de Lyon, 59, boulevard Pinel, 69500 Bron, France.
(6)Service de gynécologie obstétrique et médecine de la reproduction, CHU de 
Caen, avenue Côte-de-Nacre, 14033 Caen cedex 9, France.
(7)Service des maladies infectieuses et tropicales, hôpital 
Necker-Enfants-Malades, AP-HP, Paris, France; Université Paris Descartes, 75005 
Paris, France; Centre d'infectiologie Necker-Pasteur, Institut IMAGINE, 75015 
Paris, France.
(8)Service des maladies infectieuses et tropicales, groupe hospitalier 
Pellegrin, CHU de Bordeaux, place Amélie-Raba-Léon, 33000 Bordeaux, France; 
Infections humaines à mycoplasmes et à chlamydiae, université de Bordeaux, USC 
EA 3671, 33000 Bordeaux, France.
(9)Inserm UMR 1153, équipe de recherche en épidémiologie obstétricale, 
périnatale et pédiatrique (EPOPé), centre de recherche épidémiologie et 
statistique Sorbonne Paris Cité, 75005 Paris, France; Université Paris 
Descartes, 75005 Paris, France; DHU risques et grossesse, maternité Port-Royal, 
hôpital Cochin, hôpitaux universitaires Paris Centre, AP-HP, 75014 Paris, 
France.
(10)Clinique d'obstétrique, hôpital Jeanne-de-Flandre, CHU de Lille, Lille, 
France; Université de Lille, EA 4489-environnement périnatal et croissance, 
59000 Lille, France.
(11)Inserm UMR 1153, équipe de recherche en épidémiologie obstétricale, 
périnatale et pédiatrique (EPOPé), centre de recherche épidémiologie et 
statistique Sorbonne Paris Cité, 75005 Paris, France; Université Paris 
Descartes, 75005 Paris, France; Maternité Notre Dame de Bon Secours, DHU risques 
et grossesse, groupe hospitalier Paris Saint-Joseph, 185, rue Raymond-Losserand, 
75674 Paris cedex 14, France.
(12)DHU risques et grossesse, maternité Port-Royal, hôpital Cochin, hôpitaux 
universitaires Paris Centre, AP-HP, 75014 Paris, France; Collège national des 
sages-femmes de France, 136, avenue Emile-Zola, 75015 Paris, France.
(13)Service de gynécologie obstétrique, hôpital Bicêtre, AP-HP, 78, avenue du 
Général-Leclerc, 94270 Le Kremlin-Bicêtre, France; Université Paris-Sud, 
université de médecine Paris-Saclay, 63, rue Gabriel-Péri, 94270 Le 
Kremlin-Bicêtre, France.
(14)Inserm UMR 1153, équipe de recherche en épidémiologie obstétricale, 
périnatale et pédiatrique (EPOPé), centre de recherche épidémiologie et 
statistique Sorbonne Paris Cité, 75005 Paris, France; Service de gynécologie 
obstétrique, hôpital Trousseau, AP-HP, 26, rue du Docteur-Arnold-Netter, 75012 
Paris, France; Université Pierre-et-Marie-Curie, 4, place Jussieu, 75005 Paris, 
France.

OBJECTIVE: To determine management of women with preterm premature rupture of 
membranes (PPROM).
METHODS: Bibliographic search from the Medline and Cochrane Library databases 
and review of international clinical practice guidelines.
RESULTS: In France, PPROM rate is 2 to 3% before 37 weeks of gestation (level of 
evidence [LE] 2) and less than 1% before 34 weeks of gestation (LE2). 
Prematurity and intra-uterine infection are the two major complications of PPROM 
(LE2). Compared to other causes of prematurity, PPROM is not associated with an 
increased risk of neonatal mortality and morbidity, except in case of 
intra-uterine infection, which is associated with an augmentation of early-onset 
neonatal sepsis (LE2) and of necrotizing enterocolitis (LE2). PPROM diagnosis is 
mainly clinical (professional consensus). In doubtful cases, detection of 
IGFBP-1 or PAMG-1 is recommended (professional consensus). Hospitalization of 
women with PPROM is recommended (professional consensus). There is no sufficient 
evidence to recommend or not recommend tocolysis (grade C). If a tocolysis 
should be prescribed, it should not last more than 48hours (grade C). Antenatal 
corticosteroids before 34 weeks of gestation (grade A) and magnesium sulfate 
before 32 weeks of gestation (grade A) are recommended. Antibiotic prophylaxis 
is recommended (grade A) because it is associated with a reduction of neonatal 
mortality and morbidity (LE1). Amoxicillin, 3rd generation cephalosporins, and 
erythromycin in monotherapy or the association erythromycin-amoxicillin can be 
used (professional consensus), for 7 days (grade C). However, in case of 
negative vaginal culture, early cessation of antibiotic prophylaxis might be 
acceptable (professional consensus). Co-amoxiclav, aminosides, glycopetides, 
first and second generation cephalosporins, clindamycin, and metronidazole are 
not recommended for antibiotic prophylaxis (professional consensus). Outpatient 
management of women with clinically stable PPROM after 48hours of 
hospitalization is a possible (professional consensus). During monitoring, it is 
recommended to identify the clinical and biological elements suggesting 
intra-uterine infection (professional consensus). However, it not possible to 
make recommendation regarding the frequency of this monitoring. In case of 
isolated elevated C-reactive protein, leukocytosis, or positive vaginal culture 
in an asymptomatic patient, it is not recommended to systematically prescribe 
antibiotics (professional consensus). In case of intra-uterine infection, it is 
recommended to immediately administer an antibiotic therapy associating 
beta-lactamine and aminoside (grade B), intravenously (grade B), and to deliver 
the baby (grade A). Cesarean delivery should be performed according to the usual 
obstetrical indications (professional consensus). Expectative management is 
recommended before 37 weeks of gestation in case of uncomplicated PPROM (grade 
A), even in case of positive vaginal culture for B Streptococcus, provided that 
an antibiotic prophylaxis has been prescribed (professional consensus). Oxytocin 
and prostaglandins are two possible options to induce labor in case of PPROM 
(professional consensus).
CONCLUSION: Expectative management is recommended before 37 weeks of gestation 
in case of uncomplicated PPROM (grade A).

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gofs.2018.10.016
PMID: 30392986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Rev Inst Med Trop Sao Paulo. 2021 Jul 5;63:e54. doi: 
10.1590/S1678-9946202163054. eCollection 2021.

Safety issues of raw milk: evaluation of bacteriological and physicochemical 
characteristics of human milk from a bank in a teaching hospital, focusing on 
Staphylococcus species.

Salerno T(1), Siqueira AK(1), Pinto JPAN(1), Cunha MLRSD(2), Silvestre PK(3), 
Condas LAZ(1), Lara GHB(1), Pereira JG(1), Silva AVD(4), Listoni FJP(1), Martins 
LSA(1), Motta RG(1), Ribeiro MG(1).

Author information:
(1)Universidade Estadual Paulista, Faculdade de Medicina Veterinária e 
Zootecnia, Departamento de Produção Animal e Medicina Veterinária Preventiva, 
Botucatu, São Paulo, Brazil.
(2)Universidade Estadual Paulista, Instituto de Biociências, Departamento de 
Microbiologia, Botucatu, São Paulo, Brazil.
(3)Universidade Estadual Paulista, Faculdade de Medicina, Botucatu, São Paulo, 
Brazil.
(4)Universidade de Feira de Santana, Departamento de Ciências Biológicas, Feira 
de Santana, Bahia, Brazil.

Many infants are nurtured with milk supplied by human banks, whose 
bacteriological and physical-chemical profiles are a major issue. We 
investigated the bacteriological and physical-chemical characteristics, as well 
as genotypic and phenotypic and profiles of Staphylococcus species isolated from 
240 samples of breast milk from a bank in a teaching hospital. Dornic acidity of 
milk revealed that 95.4% (229/240) had acceptable limits (< 8.0 oD). Caloric 
intake showed a wide variation in cream content (4%), fat (4%) and energy values 
(559.81 Kcal/L). Staphylococcus (105/186 or 56.5%) and Enterobacter (25/186 or 
13.4%) were the most prevalent genera, although other microorganisms were 
identified, including Klebsiella pneumoniae and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. 
Amoxicillin/clavulanic acid (125/157 or 79.6%), vancomycin (115/157 or 73.2%), 
and cephalexin (112/157 or 71.3%) were the most effective antimicrobials. High 
resistance rates of isolates were found to penicillin G (141/157 or 89.8%), 
ampicillin (135/157 or 86%), and oxacillin (118/157 or 75.2%). Multidrug 
resistance to ≥ 3 antimicrobials occurred in 66.2% (123/186) of the isolates. 
Residues of microbial multiplication inhibitory substances were found in 85% 
(204/240) of samples. Among the coagulase-positive-CPS and negative-CoNS 
staphylococci, the mecA gene was detected in 53.3% (8/15) and 75% (30/40), 
respectively. Genes sea, seb and sec were detected in 20% (3/15) of CPS, while 
tsst-1 was detected in 13.34% (2/15). In addition, 13.3% (2/15) of S. aureus 
were toxin-producers. Genes sea, seb and sec were detected in 90% (36/40), 5% 
(2/40) and 15% (6/40) CoNS, respectively. Enterotoxin production was identified 
in 5% (2/40) of CoNS. The identification of multidrug-resistant bacteria, 
staphylococci species toxin-producers harboring methicillin-resistance genes, 
and residues of microbial multiplication inhibitory substances reinforce the 
need for a continuous vigilance of milk quality offered to infant consumption by 
human banks.

DOI: 10.1590/S1678-9946202163054
PMCID: PMC8266376
PMID: 34231819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTERESTS The authors declare no 
conflict of interests.


532. Gut. 2022 Dec 5:gutjnl-2022-328232. doi: 10.1136/gutjnl-2022-328232. Online 
ahead of print.

Empirical rescue treatment of Helicobacter pylori infection in third and 
subsequent lines: 8-year experience in 2144 patients from the European Registry 
on H. pylori management (Hp-EuReg).

Burgos-Santamaría D(1)(2), Nyssen OP(3)(4)(5)(6), Gasbarrini A(7)(8), Vaira 
D(9), Pérez-Aisa Á(10)(11), Rodrigo L(12), Pellicano R(13), Keco-Huerga A(14), 
Pabón-Carrasco M(14), Castro-Fernandez M(14)(15), Boltin D(16), Barrio J(17), 
Phull P(18), Kupcinskas J(19), Jonaitis L(19), Ortiz-Polo I(20), Tepes B(21), 
Lucendo AJ(22), Huguet JM(23), Areia M(24), Jurecic NB(25), Denkovski M(25), 
Bujanda L(26)(27), Ramos-San Román J(26), Cuadrado-Lavín A(28), Gomez-Camarero 
J(29), Jiménez Moreno MA(29), Lanas A(30), Martinez-Dominguez SJ(30), Alfaro 
E(30), Marcos-Pinto R(31)(32), Milivojevic V(33)(34), Rokkas T(35), Leja 
M(36)(37), Smith S(38), Tonkić A(39), Buzás GM(40), Doulberis M(41)(42), 
Venerito M(43), Lerang F(44), Bordin DS(45)(46), Lamy V(47), Capelle LG(48), 
Marlicz W(49), Dobru D(50), Gridnyev O(51), Puig I(52)(53), Mégraud F(54), 
O'Morain C(55), Gisbert JP(3)(4)(5)(6); Hp-EuReg Investigators.

Collaborators: Alcaide N, Velayos B, Fernández-Salazar L, Lasala JP, Calvet X, 
Gómez Rodríguez BJ, Beales ILP, Domínguez-Cajal M, Perona M, Georgopoulos S, 
Compare D, Bumane R, Almela P, Núñez Ó, Marusic M, Botargues Bote JM, 
Tejedor-Tejada J, Fernandez-Bermejo M, Voynovan I, Peña-Negro LC, Ortega XS, 
González-Santiago JM, McNamara D, Compare D, Villarroya RP, Iyo E, Gómez B, Link 
A, Rosania R, Venerito M, Malfertheiner P, Kahraman A, Núñez Ó, Ghisa M, 
Dekhnich NN, Nikolic M, Alcedo J, Iragorri IJ, Bermejo F, Algaba A, Campillo A, 
Abdulkhakov R, Grigorieva L, Fadeenko G, Silva JAD, Alekseenko S, Zaytsev O, 
Ilchishina T, Pakhomova A, Huguet-Malavés JM, Amorena E, Belousova LN, 
Plotnikova EY, Vologzhanina L, Bakanova N, Belousova LN, Stovrag TN, Nagorni I, 
Bjelakovic M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Hospital Universitario Ramón y 
Cajal, Madrid, Spain diegoburgossantamaria@gmail.com.
(2)Enfermedades Hepáticas y Digestivas, Instituto Ramón y Cajal de Investigación 
Sanitaria (IRYCIS), Madrid, Spain.
(3)Gastroenterology Unit, Hospital Universitario de la Princesa, Madrid, Spain.
(4)Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria Princesa (IIS-Princesa), Madrid, Spain.
(5)Universidad Autónoma de Madrid (UAM), Madrid, Spain.
(6)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades Hepáticas y 
Digestivas (CIBERehd), Madrid, Spain.
(7)Internal Medicine, Gastroenterology and Liver Unit, Fondazione Policlinico 
Universitario Agostino Gemelli IRCCS, Roma, Italy.
(8)Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore Facoltà di Medicina e Chirurgia, Roma, 
Italy.
(9)Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, University of Bologna, Bologna, 
Italy.
(10)Department of Gastroenterology, Hospital Costa del Sol Marbella, Marbella, 
Spain.
(11)Redes de Investigación Cooperativa Orientada a Resultados en Salud (RICORS), 
Marbella, Spain.
(12)Department of Gastroenterology, Hospital Universitario Central de Asturias, 
Oviedo, Spain.
(13)Outpatient Clinic, Molinette-SGAS Hospital, University of Turin, Turin, 
Italy.
(14)Hospital Universitario Virgen de Valme, Sevilla, Spain.
(15)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades Hepáticas y 
Digestivas (CIBERehd), Sevilla, Spain.
(16)Department of Gastroenterology, Rabin Medical Center, Beilinson Campus, Tel 
Aviv University, Petach Tikva, Israel.
(17)Department of Gastroenterology, Hospital Rio Hortega, Valladolid, Spain.
(18)Aberdeen Royal Infirmary, Aberdeen, UK.
(19)Department of Gastroenterology, Lithuanian University of Health Sciences, 
Kaunas, Lithuania.
(20)Department of Gastroenterology, Hospital Universitari i Politècnic La Fe, 
Valencia, Spain.
(21)Department of Gastroenterology, AM DC Rogaska, Rogaska Slatina, Slovenia.
(22)Department of Gastroenterology, Hospital General de Tomelloso, Tomelloso, 
Spain.
(23)Gastroenterology Unit, Consorcio Hospital General Universitario de Valencia, 
Valencia, Spain.
(24)Francisco Gentil Portuguese Institute for Oncology of Coimbra, Coimbra, 
Portugal.
(25)Interni oddelek Diagnostic Centre, Bled, Slovenia.
(26)Department of Gastroenterology, Hospital Universitario de Donostia, San 
Sebastian, Spain.
(27)Instituto Biodonostia, Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de 
Enfermedades Hepáticas y Digestivas (CIBERehd), San Sebastián, Spain.
(28)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Hospital Universitario 
Marques de Valdecilla, Santander, Spain.
(29)Gastroenterology, Hospital Universitario de Burgos, Burgos, Spain.
(30)Department of Gastroenterology, Hospital Clínico Universitario Lozano Blesa, 
Zaragoza, Spain.
(31)Department of Gastroenterology, Centro Hospitalar do Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(32)CINTESIS, University of Porto Institute of Biomedical Sciences Abel Salazar, 
Porto, Portugal.
(33)University Clinical Center of Serbia Clinic for Gastroenterology and 
Hepatology, Belgrade, Serbia.
(34)School of Medicine, University of Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia.
(35)Department of Gastroenterology, Henry Dunant Hospital Center, Athens, 
Greece.
(36)Digestive Disease Center GASTRO, Institute of Clinical and Preventive 
Medicine, Riga, Latvia.
(37)University of Latvia Faculty of Medicine, Riga, Latvia.
(38)Department of Clinical Medicine, Trinity College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.
(39)Department of Gastroenterology, University Hospital Center Split Križine, 
Split, Croatia.
(40)Department of Gastroenterology, Ferencváros Health Centre, Budapest, 
Hungary.
(41)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Kantonsspital Aarau AG, Aarau, 
Switzerland.
(42)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University of Zurich, Zurich, 
Switzerland.
(43)Department of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Infectious Diseases, 
Otto-von-Guericke University, Magdeburg, Germany.
(44)Department of Gastroenterololgy, Ostfold Hospital, Gralum, Norway.
(45)Department of Pancreatic, Biliary and Upper Digestive Tract disorders, AS 
Loginov Moscow Clinical Scientific Center, Moscow, Russian Federation.
(46)A.I. Yevdokimov Moscow State University of Medicine and Dentistry, Moscow, 
Russian Federation.
(47)CHU de Charleroi, Charleroi, Belgium.
(48)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Erasmus University Medical 
Centre, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(49)Department of Gastroenterology, Pomeranian Medical University, Szczecin, 
Poland.
(50)Department of Gastroenterology, University of Medicine, Pharmacy, Science, 
and Technology of Târgu Mures, Târgu Mures, Romania.
(51)National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine, Kiiv, Ukraine.
(52)Department of Digestive Diseases, Althaia, Xarxa Assistencial Universitària 
de Manresa, Manresa, Spain.
(53)Universitat de Vic-Universitat Central de Catalunya (UVicUCC), Manresa, 
Spain.
(54)INSERM U1312, Université de Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France.
(55)Department of Gastroenterology, Trinity College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the use, effectiveness and safety of Helicobacter pylori 
empirical rescue therapy in third and subsequent treatment lines in Europe.
DESIGN: International, prospective, non-interventional registry of the clinical 
practice of European gastroenterologists. Data were collected and quality 
reviewed until October 2021 at Asociación Española de Gastroenterología-Research 
Electronic Data Capture. All cases with three or more empirical eradication 
attempts were assessed for effectiveness by modified intention-to-treat and 
per-protocol analysis.
RESULTS: Overall, 2144 treatments were included: 1519, 439, 145 and 41 cases 
from third, fourth, fifth and sixth treatment lines, respectively. Sixty 
different therapies were used; the 15 most frequently prescribed encompassed 
>90% of cases. Overall effectiveness remained <90% in all therapies. Optimised 
treatments achieved a higher eradication rate than non-optimised (78% vs 67%, 
p<0.0001). From 2017 to 2021, only 44% of treatments other than 10-day 
single-capsule therapy used high proton-pump inhibitor doses and lasted ≥14 
days. Quadruple therapy containing metronidazole, tetracycline and bismuth 
achieved optimal eradication rates only when prescribed as third-line treatment, 
either as 10-day single-capsule therapy (87%) or as 14-day traditional therapy 
with tetracycline hydrochloride (95%). Triple amoxicillin-levofloxacin therapy 
achieved 90% effectiveness in Eastern Europe only or when optimised. The overall 
incidence of adverse events was 31%.
CONCLUSION: Empirical rescue treatment in third and subsequent lines achieved 
suboptimal effectiveness in most European regions. Only quadruple 
bismuth-metronidazole-tetracycline (10-day single-capsule or 14-day traditional 
scheme) and triple amoxicillin-levofloxacin therapies reached acceptable 
outcomes in some settings. Compliance with empirical therapy optimisation 
principles is still poor 5 years after clinical practice guidelines update.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT02328131.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2022. No commercial re-use. See rights and 
permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/gutjnl-2022-328232
PMID: 36591610

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: OPN has received research 
funding from Mayoly and Allergan. JPG has served as speaker, consultant and 
advisory member for or has received research funding from Mayoly, Allergan, 
Diasorin, Gebro Pharma and Richen. MC-F has received retribution from Allergan 
for formative actions. AP-A has received retribution from Allergan and Mylan for 
formative actions. Laimas Jonaitis has served as speaker for KRKA. AL has served 
as a consultant to Bayer.


533. Eur J Transl Myol. 2022 Oct 20;32(4):10813. doi: 10.4081/ejtm.2022.10813.

Antibiotic use in endodontic treatment during pregnancy: A narrative review.

Aliabadi T(1), Saberi EA(2), Motameni Tabatabaei A(3), Tahmasebi E(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endodontics, Faculty of Dentistry, Zahedan University of 
Medical Sciences, Zahedan. tbkh457@yahoo.com.
(2)Department of Endodontics, Faculty of Dentistry, Zahedan University of 
Medical Sciences, Zahedan. saberiendo@zaums.ac.ir.
(3)Department of Endodontics, Faculty of Dentistry, Zahedan University of 
Medical Sciences, Zahedan. a.motamenitabatabaei@yahoo.com.
(4)Department of Endodontics, Faculty of Dentistry, Zahedan University of 
Medical Sciences, Zahedan. ba.ahmed89@yahoo.com.

More than half of pregnant women are usually affected by odontogenic pain 
affects. Pain often accompanies periapical or pulp infections and increases the 
risks to pregnant patients and their fetuses. The American Dental Association, 
in partnership with the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, has 
offered a strong declaration reaffirming the significance of suitable and timely 
oral health care as an indispensable constituent of a healthy pregnancy. 
However, there is lack of knowledge about the use of antibiotics in endodontic 
treatment. Therefore, the present study would review the researches done in this 
area and tries to provide comprehensive and complete information about the use 
of antibiotics in endodontic treatment during pregnancy. Based on the results, 
it can be said that using antibiotics during pregnancy are allowed, and they can 
be used normally and safely by pregnant women.

DOI: 10.4081/ejtm.2022.10813
PMCID: PMC9830410
PMID: 36268928

Conflict of interest statement: We confirm that we have read the Journal’s 
position on issues involved in ethical publication and affirm that this report 
is consistent with those guidelines. Oral disease in pregnant women is a major 
public health issue worldwide. Pregnancy does come with inherent risks and the 
idea that dental treatment should not be implemented due to pregnancy is not 
debatable. Special concerns are necessary as a pregnant woman seeks dental 
care;, hence, the treatment related to these patients may need more attention to 
reduce treatment time and make changes in the type of dental treatment and 
prescribed drugs. Appropriate risk assessment for the mother and fetus should be 
performed.According to results of a novel study about pregnant women, it was 
recognized that more than 43% of them have oral health problems, containing 
odontogenic infections and pain. It is normal that most of odontogenic 
infections develop quickly to deep-seated infections that ultimately endanger 
the airway of oropharyngeal. Moreover, dental infections usually present with 
symptoms of pain and swelling in the mouth. Misuse of drugs instead of receiving 
proper dental treatment may consequently lead to damaging effects on the 
pregnant patient and fetus; so, during pregnancy, it is necessary to notice that 
odontogenic infections must be treated quickly at any time. One of the suggested 
treatments is endodontic treatment, which includes cleaning and removing the 
pulp of a patient's teeth. Root Canal Therapy (RCT) may include radiography, 
local anesthesia, root cleaning, and intracanal drugs such as analgesics and 
antibiotics. During endodontic treatment, radiography is essential, and to have 
appropriate diagnosis, proper obstruction, length of work, and assessment after 
treatment, radiographs are needed. As X-rays during intraoral radiography are 
directed to the mouth and not the abdomen, it is considered safe for pregnant 
women. In addition, when performing radiography, a protective method like 
collimation, high-speed film, lead apron, and filtration is also applied. It is 
recommended that concerned pregnant patients be reassured that the as Low as 
Reasonably Achievable (ALARA) standard will be used in all circumstances 
requiring radiographs and that only the necessary radiographs for both treat and 
diagnosis will be obtained. During pregnancy, local anesthesia is considered 
rather safe if it is managed properly and in the exact amount. The overall idea 
is that sometimes there is a need to administer an increased quantity of 
anesthesia and that the effects of stress are more dangerous than those of the 
increased quantity of local anesthesia. Most anesthesia contain vasoconstrictor 
epinephrine. A maximum dose of 0.1 mg has been added to local anesthesia. No 
side impacts or abnormalities have been reported, even after the implementation 
of epidural anesthesia during childbirth. Local anesthesia with epinephrine, 
used as an intravascular injection, has been reported to at least cause a 
decrease in placental uterine blood flow. It has been reported that for healthy 
pregnant women, a concentration of 1: 100,000 epinephrine applied in dentistry 
is considered safe accompanied with an appropriate aspiration procedure and 
limited to the minimum necessary dose., During pregnancy, RCT is applied to 
achieve the goals such as preserving a healthy oral environment, controlling the 
illness, and avoiding possible problems that may happen during the 
post-childbirth time or in late pregnancy. None of the detergents, hypochlorites 
and root canal fillers used in endodontic are claimed to be harmful to the 
fetus. In addition, some antibiotics and analgesics can be safely prescribed by 
your dentist as an adjunct to endodontic treatment. MANAGEMENT OF EMERGENCIES 
AND ACUTE DISEASE: In situations such as mild cellulite, drugs like cephalexin, 
penicillin and amoxicillin, as first-line antibiotics would probably beselected. 
Also, in the case of allergy to penicillin, Erythromycin or clindamycin 
(Cleocin) may be applied.The pregnant patient with severe cellulite should be 
treated at a hospital with an intravenous infusion of clindamycin or 
cephalosporin. To relive toothache, Acetaminophen can be prescribed. Besides, 
controlled use of oxycodone and Ibuprofen are proper. SOME COMMON KINDS OF 
DENTAL TECHNIQUES THAT CAN BE IMPLEMENTED IN EACH TRIMESTER: First trimester: 
The most vital period for fetal growth. Emergency treatment should be 
implemented whether or not organogenesis is complete, there are precautions to 
be made and the patient’s obstetrician should be consulted if organogenesis is 
incomplete, but emergency treatment is vital. If a pregnant patient experienced 
a toothache, the dentist can make an emergency opening, eliminate the inflamed 
pulp (or) drain the pus, and release the pain. Intracanal drugs such as 
chlorhexidine/metronidazole and calcium hydroxide can be used. In addition, 
programs containing Plaque diet control for pregnant patient can be initiated. 
Second trimester: During the second trimester of pregnancy, it is the safest 
phase for treating patients. So, elective and emergency dental treat can be 
administered in the second trimester. Also, other treatments can be done like 
periodontal surgery, tooth extraction, and root canal treat. Third trimester: If 
the patient has a toothache, emergency treat can be administered and if 
possible, transfer definitive treat to the post-childbirth time. In 2012, the 
American Dental Association issued a statement reaffirmed in 2019. It underlines 
the significance of oral health for pregnant patients at the correct time and in 
the suitable place. Treatment, the inhibition and control of odontogenic 
infections as an appropriate treatment is necessary to a healthy pregnancy, yet, 
it has been reported that oral treatments during pregnancy are avoided by 
numerous dental treat providers., Evidence for the use of antibiotics as 
complementary medicine in endodontic treatment is given below.According to the 
obtained results of some studies in Canada and Netherlands, about 25% to 50% of 
pregnant women have received antibiotics., However, it is necessary to prescribe 
antibiotics to pregnant women after evaluating their disadvantages and 
advantages. It should also be noted that infections can be dangerous for both 
mother and fetus. For example, one of the risks of spreading infection from the 
mandibular second molars is the possibility of Ludwig's angina., INDICATIONS FOR 
ANTIBIOTICS IN DENTISTRY: According to studies, the use of antibiotics in some 
cases such as surgery to remove benign tumors, surgery for extraction of 
impacted teeth, surgery for an implant, bone grafting, and periapical surgery, 
is prescribed for patients. In treatment of acute infections like invasive 
localized periodontitis, ulcerative gingivitis, acute apical abscess, 
periodontal abscess, peri-implantitis, cellulite and pericoronitis, the 
antibiotics are also suggested., TRANSPORT ACROSS THE PLACENTA: Antibiotics have 
high fat solubility and low molecular weight. This maintains a high 
concentration of antibiotics in the blood and facilitates their transfer through 
the placental barrier. In addition, oral antibiotics are safer than Systemic 
antibiotics because of their lower absorption., CLASSIFICATION OF ANTIBIOTICS: 
The FDA has divided antibiotics into five categories based on their side effects 
during pregnancy: Category A: This category includes antibiotics that have been 
adequately controlled in studies and have not reported any specific side effects 
during pregnancy. Category B: Antibiotics have not been observed any specific 
complications in humans during pregnancy, but side effects have been observed in 
animals. Category C: Antibiotics do not have sufficient information about their 
side effects in pregnant women or animals. Category D: Antibiotics that have 
side effects, but they have been proven in pregnancy, but when necessary, their 
benefits are more than their disadvantages. Category X: Antibiotics those side 
effects have been proven in humans and animals and their disadvantages are more 
than their advantages. The next part is a list of the most common antibiotics 
applied in dentistry during pregnancy. Penicillin To treat odontogenic 
infections, Penicillins are suggested as beta-lactam antibiotics. Amoxicillin, 
ampicillin (category B), and penicillin VK are suggested as common dental 
antibiotics. According to the statement of the FDA, no relation has yet been 
reported linking the implementation of amoxicillin during pregnancy to the 
miscarriage, the main birth defects, or fetal and maternal side effects. The 
same results were reported by the Teratogen System Information (TERIS) by 
examination of 25,000 implementation of penicillin in pregnancy and the 
increased danger of pregnancy outcomes. Nevertheless, there are some evidences 
that confirm the congenital defects of the oral-maxillofacial complex like cleft 
lip and palate and hypomineralization in tooth enamel as results of the use of 
amoxicillin during pregnancy. As a beta-lactamase inhibitor antibiotic, the 
combination of amoxicillin and clavulanic acid (co-amoxiclav) is very effective 
in treating sever odontogenic infections. No evidences have been reported of the 
relationship between increased dangers of fetal or congenital defects by 
exposure to therapeutic doses of this combination drug during pregnancy (18). It 
is worthy to point that the danger of a severe disease called necrotizing 
enterocolitis in the newborn is increased by use of this drug in the third 
trimester. While the complete danger of infection is not high, this combination 
drug should be eluded in the third trimester of pregnancy. Cephalosporin They 
are considered a kind of beta-lactam antibiotics with a broad range. There is no 
evidence approving an increased danger of spontaneous abortion or miscarriage in 
pregnant patients used cephalosporins. The reports about the relationship 
between congenital defects in infants and prenatal implementation of 
cephalosporins are conflicting. Based on results of an examination working on 
the impacts of cephalosporins in initial use, no adverse effects were reported. 
It is worthy to mention that some studies approved the relationship between 
implementation of cephalosporin, anorectal atresia, and atrial septal deficiency 
in infants. Yet, the danger of developing abnormalities is not high. Clindamycin 
This drug is frequently applied for patients with a previous hypersensitivity to 
beta-lactam. There is not enough clinical information on the safety of this 
category (B). While clindamycin is not associated with outcomes of pregnancy and 
abortion on the fetus, its use has been associated with congenital 
cardiovascular and musculoskeletal abnormalities., Metronidazole Metronidazole 
is a very effective category B drug derived from nitroimidazole. The antibiotic 
metronidazole is prescribed against anaerobic bacteria, usually in combination 
with penicillin, to treat odontogenic infections. Concerns about the 
mutagenicity and carcinogenicity of metronidazole have been reported in animal 
studies; while in human studies the absence of these cases has been confirmed., 
There are not same obtained results regarding prenatal metronidazole use and a 
developed danger of miscarriage. No meaningful relationships have been reported 
between prenatal metronidazole use and fetal deficiencies or adverse 
pregnancy.,, Tetracycline Tetracyclines are the same as tetracycline, 
oxytetracycline, minocycline, and doxycycline. They are all broad-spectrum 
antibiotics classified in category D., A study has reported a statistically 
significant relationship between the use of tetracycline antibiotics and 
spontaneous abortion of the fetus. In addition, the use of tetracyclines has 
been shown to stain permanent teeth and discolor them., Therefore, it is 
recommended that tetracycline be avoided during pregnancy except there is a 
convincing cause. Macrolide Macrolides are similar in antibacterial range to 
penicillin and usually used for patients with allergy to penicillin. In 
dentistry, the most frequently used of this group are azithromycin (category B), 
erythromycin (category B), and clarithromycin (category C).. Based on the new 
findings, macrolide use has not been related to cardiovascular defects in 
newborns and the previous beliefs were rejected. According to gained results of 
a novel meta-analysis, an increased danger of cerebral palsy-epilepsy, 
miscarriage, and gastrointestinal abnormalities were reported as the results of 
macrolide use during pregnancy. Based on another finding, acetate macrolides are 
not relatively safer than basic form of erythromycin. [Table: see text] 
Fluoroquinolones They are broad-range category C antibiotics with restricted 
usage. For odontogenic infections, they are just applied for patients with 
allergy to penicillins or treatment of bacteria unaffected by other antibiotics. 
Meanwhile, their implementation for odontogenic infections in endodontics is 
restricted. Meta-analysis findings have not been able to reveal the use of 
fluoroquinolones, especially ciprofloxacin, that upsurge the danger of preterm 
delivery, miscarriage, and fetal abnormalities., Table 1. shows management of 
antibiotics for pregnant patients in dentistry. BENEFITS AND HARMS OF 
ANTIBIOTICS: Most pregnant women are prescribed to use a variety of medicines. 
The drugs may have teratogenic influences on the fetus during pregnancy. In 
addition, drugs used during breastfeeding can have severe effects on the health 
of the baby. During pregnancy and lactation, one of the most used drugs is 
antibiotics frequently prescribed by doctors. INFECTIONS AND PRETERM LABOR: 
According to the definition of The World Health Organization, preterm labor is 
labor that happens at more than 20 weeks and less than 37 weeks gestation. The 
frequency of preterm labor in developed countries differs between 7 and 11%., In 
the last 40 years, in spite of all progresses in midwifery care, the danger of 
prematurity has not reduced. In developed countries, prematurity is recognized 
as one of the main reasons of mortality and neonatal morbidity and it is the 
cause of 60% to 80% of neonatal mortality deprived of congenital abnormalities. 
Despite the low percentage of births less than 32 weeks' gestation (only 1% to 
2% of all births), they are reason for 50% of long-term neurological problems as 
well as 60% of prenatal deaths., Pointing to the financial issues, preterm labor 
is remarkably significant as one-tenth of the cost of general child care and 
one-third of the cost of caring for infants is related to preterm labor.,During 
the two past decades, many kinds of investigations have underlined the reasons 
of preterm labor and consequently various correlated risk elements have been 
recognized. Most common reported ones are congenital causes of infectious 
origin. The possible associations between preterm labor and infection can be 
explained by models that claim that preterm labor is initiated by an 
inflammatory reaction to pro-inflammatory cytokines such as IL-6, IL-8, 
interleukin (IL) -1 beta, and TNF-alpha. Based on the evidences from clinical 
and laboratory examinations, there is a relationship between labor and systemic 
infections and spontaneous preterm labor., As a result, it is widely an accepted 
logical assumption that antibiotics play an effective role in the handling of 
preterm labor., Although the relationship between inflammation and infection 
with the increased danger of preterm labor is crucial, yet it is not identified 
whether antibiotic handling can inhibit it. Moreover, it is believed that 
antibiotic treatment to inhibit preterm labor can be dangerous., SIDE EFFECTS OF 
MISUSE OF ANTIBIOTICS: Antibiotic resistance is a natural phenomenon, but it can 
be caused by the misuse of antibiotics. The plans to inhibit his misuse of 
antibiotics can have consequent worldwide results for inhibiting the expansion 
of antibiotic-resistant bacterial strains. There is some data that antibiotic 
implementation can lead to severe side effects such as gastrointestinal 
abnormalities, allergic reactions, and cardiac arrhythmias, and death The 
expansion of resistant bacteria is recognized as a main problematic issue linked 
to the overuse of antibiotics., It is claimed that the use of antibiotics during 
fetal-neonatal life has an opposing and long-term influence on the maternal 
intestinal microbiota and the maternal vaginal microbiota. Furthermore, it can 
lead to the expansion of allergic illnesses. Antibiotics may also inhibit and 
delay with the beginning colonization of the baby's gut microbiota. This 
inhibition may restrict the development and growth of the baby's immune system, 
causing diseases and allergies., Overuse of antibiotics for pregnant women is 
linked to the presence of many antibiotic-resistant organisms, as the rate of 
erythromycin-resistant Streptococcus (Group B) -one of the selective antibiotics 
after premature rupture of membranes (PROM) prescribed in most British 
hospitals- and reaches 35%. In conclusion, according to the results of 
researches, aspecifically evidences published by the American Dental Association 
with American Obstetricians, the use of some antibiotics during pregnancy are 
allowed and can be used normally and safely by pregnant women.